We think the setup is really
constructive into next year for a
broadening in earnings. There's this
element that maybe things could be
better and you have a lot of stimulus
coming.
>> Let's not be complacent and just expect
the same really positive performance
we've seen so far this year.
>> If you start to see any kind of
degradation in earnings, I would be much
less optimistic.
>> The market tends to discount both good
news and bad news fairly quickly. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance with Jonathan
Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and An Marie
Hordern.
>> It's Fed Day. Good morning. Welcome to
Bloomberg Surveillance. Stocks looking
for direction, bonds finding some, and
not in a good way. Yield surging
globally despite expectations for a rate
cut at today's Fed meeting with
investors looking to the end of a
worldwide easing cycle. And in the
United States, economic data keeps
showing a mixed picture with a wage
inflation report due out today. We get
that employment cost index ahead of the
Fed meeting and then Oracle earnings
after the bell. All eyes right now very
much on bonds with yields climbing
despite some of the assertions from both
Fed officials as well as this
administration.
>> And that makes a bit more of a difficult
picture for the Fed. I've read about
four different takes this morning on why
yields are rising. Is it because what's
going on in places like Japan,
Australia, Canada? We have the end of
some of these cycles or potentially some
hikes in some of these countries. Is it
because there is concern over the
deficit? Think about things that are
hanging over this economy. Whether or
not the Supreme Court tamps down on
AIPA, do we get $2,000 dividend checks
from this administration in a midterm
election year? They're concerned about
affordability and then the money goes
out the door once again and not to bring
down the deficit. Or is it because
investors are worried about the other
mandate the Fed has to worry about,
which is inflation. And right now, the
bias is on the labor market. And that
seems to be globally what is getting
people a little bit concerned in terms
of have we already reached the peak of
disinflation and are we going to lead to
the end of a global easing cycle? People
pricing in the chances of a Bank of
Japan hike, Australian rate hikes, ECB
potentially not having any additional
rate hikes. Just to put into
perspective, the Federal Reserve has cut
rates 175 basis points since it began
the cycle back in September. A real
question here is this going to be an
increasingly politically politically
motivated Fed at a time where gold is
surging and people are wondering whether
the dollar and also this meeting
particularly is very challenging. We
have not had jobs or retail sales
numbers for October and November. The
Fed is still driving a bit in the fog
right now and Jay Powell is not a dove
or a hawk at this meeting. He is a lame
duck and potentially does it even matter
how many descents we get and is it going
to foreshadow how difficult the path is
going to be for whoever the president of
United States puts in as his
replacement. I feel bad that the duck is
the ultimate uh destination given the
fact that it could be a dove or a hawk.
Right now we also are heading into
Oracle earnings at a time where that
really is the key question. Can AI hopes
and dreams continue to support this
market? Right now this market is not
finding direction on the stock side.
You're seeing pretty much across the
board meandering between gains and
losses. Down about a tenth of a percent
for right now. Yields are finding a
direction. 4.2%
on the tenure. Globally 10ear yields at
the highest levels going back to 2009 in
the United States. The highest levels
going back to September. They were at
4.07%
at the last Fed meeting on October 29th.
What we do see is a little bit of dollar
weakness and crude prices rising. Coming
up this hour, Julian Emanuel of Evercore
ISI with stocks on hold ahead of that
Fed rate decision. Erica Nagarian of UBS
as JP Morgan warns of higher costs
ahead. Anila Richardson of ADP on the
state of the labor market as the data
paints a mixed picture. We begin this
hour with stocks little change as
investors await the Fed's last rate
decision of the year. Julia Emanuel of
Evercore staying bullish into 2026,
writing, "Earning strength, fiscal and
monetary stimulus and a capital market
cycle moving into higher gear are laying
the groundwork for 7750 at year end
2026." Julian, I am so glad to say joins
us here. Julian, thank you for being
here.
>> Good morning.
>> So, what do you make of the yields
rising this morning?
Look, the first thing is we have to step
back and understand something that bond
market cycles are very longlegged
things. And and the 40-year bond bull
market ended at the pandemic lows in
2020. And when you think of and and
Marie, you you just detailed all of the
reasons that yields are going higher.
And the answer is yes to every single
one of them. You put it together in our
mind, if you think about it, it's almost
remarkable that the confluence of the US
being the de premier destination for
capital has actually caused uh spreads
against global bond markets uh to
compress. You know, if you had said to
me Japanese 10-year yields were going to
be close to 2%, I would have told you at
the beginning of the year that US 10year
yields would be close to 5%. And we're
not there. But all of these pressures
are building in in our mind towards
higher yields.
>> If we do get a hawkish Fed today, is
that going to diminish some of the
optimism that you have heading into 2026
or support it given the fact that the
Fed is looking at a rosier economic
backdrop? So that is the question that
is is really fascinating in in our mind
and we're a little bit uncomfortable by
this you know incredibly staunch uh
consensus that we are going to get
precisely a hawkish cut that is going to
be bullish for stocks in the near term.
We actually think long-term it is
bullish for stocks uh because simply it
shows that the Fed is cognizant of the
inflation problem as well. But the other
issue there, Lisa, is the labor market
is about as clear as mud. I think
whatever it's not even mud, it's just
it's unknowable right now. And and and
that's really the aspect of the flying
blind that is probably going to weigh on
markets. Julian, what unnerves you about
the hawkish cut consensus? Is it the
hawkish part or is the fact that people
think that is going to be bullish for
stocks?
>> No, it's actually the the deep
consensus. So what we've seen this year
uh and our survey team has has really
been uh front foot on this particularly
during the government data blackout is
that anytime we've had really really
deep consensus whether it was going back
to that week in April where our clients
81% of them thought we were either in a
recession or it was going to start in
the second half or going back to the end
of October when a record 75% of our
clients responded in our polling that
the next 10% in the S&P 500 was up and
then you immediately had that 5%
pullback. That's what bothers us. And
and and the just the consensus around
the fact that this is likely to be
bullish and frankly if this was any
other month than December, it probably
would not be as sharp a consensus. But
December tends to be a good month for
stocks. We think there is potential for
surprise here.
>> Like what what's a surprise? that well
look if you look at last year you had a
hawkish cut at the December FOMC last
year and the market pulled back it
didn't derail the bull market in in any
way shape or form but it made December
an unexpectedly volatile month and you
add in the fact that you're going to get
data employment data on the 16th who the
heck ever heard of the Fed talking and
then getting the data it's just it's
ridiculous
>> you're speaking Emory's language she's
saying come
move the meeting so we can actually get
that data. It's not just the employment
data. It's also a question around the
big tax space and exactly what they are
doing. I think about John Stozf. He
comes in every day singing it's how you
do the things you do. And it's sort of
this question around Oracle which
reports earnings after the bell. How
much are they yes planning for expansion
going to beat expectations but continue
building their debt pile in a way that
seems not unsustainable but potentially
a little more precarious when it comes
to capital markets.
>> Yeah. No. and and and actually from from
our point of view the concern around the
debt loads of these companies this one
in particular is quite rational. If you
think back uh to this whole talk about
an AI bubble, which we don't believe
were anywhere near the endgame yet at
all uh in AI, but if you think back to
the late 1990s, the concern was just,
you know, just random throwing money at
everything everywhere without revenues.
Um and in that respect having a little
bit of capital markets discipline to
around a company that is assuming a
bigger debt load is very very measured
and it shows that people are not losing
their heads. But our question is is that
when those earnings are announced this
afternoon is it more the sense that the
AI bubble is going to pop? We think it
might actually be more the sense that
the fear bubble as reflected by the
credit default swap market may pop.
>> In other words, the idea that people are
pricing in the highest chance of some
sort of default or demanding the highest
amount of compensation for default from
the likes of Oracle going back to 2009
that might have to diminish. I do wonder
the Fed's role putting these two stories
together. What is the Fed's role in
lifting the AI bubble? this idea that if
the Fed is overly easy and I say overly
based on the economic conditions uh
might what what they might warrant does
that lead to an inflation of some of
these valuations and frankly the debt
profiles of some of these companies that
raises your concern? It certainly could
and and we have said for the last
several months that given this sort of
extraordinary time that we're in where
earnings are going to be good, the
economy's humming along even with the
questions around labor. But the point is
both monetary and fiscal stimulus really
do have the potential. Uh we've said
there's a 30% chance that you get a
full-on bubble next year, which we
define as 9,000 in the S&P 500. Um,
which I think is also why on balance the
Fed is trying to remind everyone of the
dual mandate in general. But again, the
questions around the labor market are
very, very intense,
>> especially given what Joel stated came
out yesterday and just added to this
confusion given the fact that the
headlines number came in pretty well and
then you saw the quits number come in at
the lowest pace going back to May of
2020. So, choose your own adventure. Is
gold telling us something? because I was
looking at the move since the last Fed
meeting and what stands out to me
10-year yields, 30-year yields, and gold
up 7% in that period of time. Are we
getting a signal there about the path of
travel right now in terms of the US's
role in terms of fiscal dominance when
it comes to the US dollar and when it
comes to uh just going forward what
people think about this policy? Well,
gold has really the last couple years
been a portfolio diversifier. And then
from our perspective, you know, you saw
what we believe is a reasonably
significant dollar top in the first
quarter of 2025. So gold tends to trade
better on that. I I would say frankly,
you know, gold has actually lagged the
last month or two as silver has has shot
the moon. That to us says that there's
probably a pause in in the precious
metals frenzy coming, you know, into
2026.
>> Yeah. Silver prices surging. Julian
Emanuel of Evercore, I'm so glad to say,
is sticking with us. Yesterday, we were
talking a lot about how President Trump
allowed Nvidia to sell the H200 trips
into China, a reversal. The big question
was, if we sell it, will they buy? And
the answer is evidently yes. According
to Reuters, Bite Dance, Alibaba, both of
them looking to order Nvidia H200 chips
after we heard yesterday.
>> And the information said the government
actually called in these companies,
wanted to sit them down and ask them,
"What is the appetite? Do you need these
chips?" And I guess according to
Reuters, the answer was yes. Remember
the Financial Times said they were going
to look at this, potentially have a
lengthy process on who should be getting
these chips? Because of course, China
rather they buy the homegrown champions.
But it clearly shows that nothing is
better right now than what the US has in
terms of advanced artificial
intelligence semiconductors
>> and some meetings taking place in China
to discuss the extent of that connection
coming up. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomer brief with
Yhierra Antihira.
>> Good morning, Lisa. President Donald
Trump holding a campaign style rally in
Pennsylvania last night. He told the
crowd, "People are starting to see the
benefits of tariffs as his
administration tries to address
affordability concerns. The president
arguing that tariffs have allowed him to
provide aid to farmers and force
manufacturers to build plants and data
centers in the US." Meanwhile, White
House National Economic Council Director
Kevin Hasset says he sees plenty of room
to substantially lower rates. Tacet, who
is seen as the front runner to replace
Fed Chair J. Powell, says if he becomes
head of the Fed, his loyalty would be to
his independent economic judgment
judgment, which he thinks the president
trusts. And SpaceX is moving ahead with
plans to go public next year, sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, Elon
Musk's company aims to raise
significantly more than $30 billion in
its IPO. SpaceX is targeting a valuation
of about $1.5 trillion dollars, making
it the biggest listing of all time if it
happens. That's your brief. Lisa, thank
you so much, Yahara. Up next, President
Trump's economy.
>> Lower prices, bigger paychecks,
inflation. We're crushing it. The only
thing that you that's really going up
big, it's called the stock market and
your 401ks.
>> Bloomberg's Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
and Anna Wong both joining us next from
New York. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Christmas tree inflation really on fire
this year. It's one thing we were
noticing. question is, is everything
else on fire too when it comes to the
inflationary backdrop in markets?
Looking for direction in the equity
space? Still hovering near all-time
highs and just pushing back from some of
the lows in futures earlier this
morning. A bit of dollar weakness as we
look ahead to another Fed rate cut. That
is the expectation which would bring
total rate cuts to 175 basis points
since the beginning of the rate cutting
cycle last September and 10-year yields
surging to the highest going back to the
end of September 4.2%. 2%. Back when the
Fed last met, it was 4.07%,
a 13 basis point increase since that
last meeting. Silver surging to new
all-time highs with another 7/10en of a
percent gain this morning. Under
surveillance this morning, President
Trump's economy.
>> The new word is affordability.
So they look at the camera and they say
this election is all about
affordability. I have no higher priority
than making America affordable again.
Lower prices, bigger paychecks. 199 a
gallon. How would you like to have 199
inflation? We're crushing it. The only
thing that you that's really going up
big, it's called the stock market and
your 401ks.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
promoting his economic agenda during a
campaign style speech in Pennsylvania,
touting the success of tariffs and
saying his administration is bringing it
down prices. We've got team coverage
with Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall and Anna
Wong. both in Washington DC. Tyler, I
want to start with you. What was new
that we heard yesterday? Was there any
kind of shift in President Trump's tone?
>> Yeah. Hey, Lisa. Good morning. Well,
this was really part of an
administrationwide push to change the
president's messaging when it comes to
the economy, marking his first domestic
policy address since Republicans were
dealt a series of election losses last
month. President Trump touted his
policies, not necessarily anything new.
But it was in this bid to address voter
concerns around affordability as polls
and data shows sagging sentiment. A new
survey released this week by Fox News
shows that 76% of American voters view
the economy negatively. The president
claimed people are starting to
understand the benefits of his tariff
policies, though did concede that he's
gotten a lot of heat in his words over
the tariff regime. At the same time
though, his his aids are really trying
to plead with the public that they need
to have some patience here, even as
we've seen new policies rolled out in
recent weeks. Everything from proposals
of investigations into the food supply
chain to actually issuing agricultural
exemptions when it comes to certain
tariffs. So, we're going to have to see
how this goes because Lisa, really, as
we careen into the end of the year, it's
going to be another affordability issue
that is putting pressure on this White
House and that has to do with health
care. As we careen into the end of the
year, lawmakers are trying to grapple
with that deadline for those expiring
affordable care act premium tax
subsidies.
>> Yeah, and Tyler, this is a reason why
people are having a hard time getting
their hands around exactly what the
inflationary pressures are. And Anna,
I'd love your take on that given the
fact that the Fed feels like inflation
is the lesser of the concerns between
the jobs market and price stability.
What are we seeing whether it's the
employment cost index that we get today
at 8:30 or just in general when it comes
to surveys about just how much price
pressure there actually is
Lisa? So the short answer is not much
right now. So uh the employment cost
index that's coming out it's likely to
show that the the uh uh employment cost
is running about at 3.6% this year. So
if you think that the labor productivity
is running at about 2% that means that
you know productivity adjusted wages is
below 2%. So so as Powell said the labor
market is not the source of inflation
right now. Then we look at goods which
is what how common people feel uh or or
gauge the price pressure uh and what
this affordability debate is about.
Well, so Chicago Fed President Austin
Guzby runs a firm or used to run a firm
that collect online prices. It's called
the Adobe price index. And basically
that that index is showing that the
November uh inflation for our goods
actually uh declined by a lot compared
to last year. So and that's the same
message we are seeing in our own
collection of millions of online prices
as well that November was actually a
very low inflation month. Now being
forwardlooking we also look at earning
transcripts uh which can predict
inflation for in three or six months and
that is showing very little inflation
pressure in the next couple of quarters.
Thank you so much, Anna Wong and
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. And uh I just
mentioned Christmas trees. So I went to
find out exactly what the Christmas tree
inflation was. And it turns out that
more people are buying fresh Christmas
trees because the price of artificial
ones have raised 10 to 15% due to
tariffs on China. This according to the
American Christmas Tree Association. So
that's actually a real phenomenon.
>> And you can get a you can get a
Christmas tree right outside your
doorstep in New York. They're just on
the street there.
>> Yeah, but they're well you mean after
Christmas and then celebrate Christmas
in January and you can get it for free.
Julian Emanuel of Evercore ISA still
with us this morning. Julian, how are
you looking at affordability issues when
it comes to trying to position and
understanding exactly which sectors
could potentially outperform?
>> Sure. Well, let's take a step back and
recognize how unusual this cycle is,
right? Literally, consumer sentiment has
been subdued or worse than subdued
essentially since the pandemic without
any letup. That's totally unprecedented
in an environment where we've never even
had the threat of a recession uh despite
perceptions earlier this year. And and
so this whole concept of affordability
sort of addresses the the desire to
boost sentiment and really you know uh
grapple with the concept that the
consumer is feeling K-shaped. The
economy is feeling K-shaped and
ultimately the the flow through has been
the stock market has felt K-shaped and
from both the demand side i.e. you know,
big beautiful bill stimulus, potential
tariff rebate checks, and then the
supply side, uh, reducing coffee
tariffs, importing more beef from
Argentina. The whole idea is to boost
that sentiment. And from our point of
view, uh, we think it's a very unique
opportunity to own the beaten down
consumer names. There's just a lot of
consumer names that have been left in
the dust in both the staples world and
the discretionary world as people have,
you know, perhaps rightly so
concentrated on putting their money uh
behind the AI theme. But we do think and
we've seen a lot of these um sort of mid
to lower end names report and have very
positive price reactions uh the last
number of weeks against the holiday
season. That's shaping up nicely. And
then the last thing is that the tendency
for these names many of which are down
in a in a bullish year um to outperform
in the first quarter the reversion trade
very strong. So we think the K gets
addressed by policy and likely shows up
in the stock market.
>> So does that mean you believe in a
rotation?
>> It is part of the story. Um, look again
when we think about 2026,
this notion that the market can still
travel higher without the AI trade
leading, we're a bit skeptical about
that, you know, but think about it is we
had the government shutdown. Everyone
recognized very quickly uh that they
were a underweight healthcare and that b
healthcare was the central policy issue
around the shutdown. and then we had
this massive healthc care
outperformance. We think we'll see the
same thing in the consumer space.
>> We're already going to get fiscal juice
when it comes to the one big beautiful
bill. Now they're teasing out
potentially $2,000 tariff dividend
checks. This is the same group of
people, Republicans, who then criticize
the Biden administration for doing just
that, sending out checks. Do you think
this will also goose inflation? Doesn't
that become a more difficult story then
to tame for the consumer and for the
Fed? Well, look, if you're going to put
more money in the system, you're going
to underpin in inflation. But I will say
when when we think about 2025 and
thinking into 2026, look, we and most
everyone else overestimated the impact
on inflation from tariffs. Okay? And so
as that continues to dissipate and make
its way through the system, the
likelihood is the path of travel for
inflation does continue down. Which
again is is why uh you know when you
think about the course of of interest
rates next year. There's no set of
economic statistics where the Fed will
end up hiking rates at all next year.
And frankly, the markets is very
rationally priced uh for the number of
cuts expected next year.
>> Yeah, watch the dot plot. Do we get the
same kind of one cut next year and then
one cut in 2027? Does it mean anything
given the fact we could get a real
change on the Fed's leadership? Julian
Emanuel, always wonderful to see you.
Good luck with all of the shopping on
all holiday counts. Evercore ISI's uh
main markets maven who we love speaking
to. Coming up, we're going to be
speaking with Erikica Nagarian of UBS on
the state of the financials with a JP
Morgan shares falling by the most in 8
months. Plus, Danny Burgerer with your
morning movers. GE Verona jumping after
doubling its dividend. What we're seeing
in markets more broadly is just a real
kind of sense of malaise. I mean, what
is exactly going to motivate anybody to
take conviction right now ahead of this
meeting?
>> No way. Not ahead of the Fed meeting.
And then even after the Fed meeting,
there is still feels like one more week
left of this year. And that's because
we're going to get jobs data next week.
Exactly. Which will definitely color
things. Right now we are seeing a real
outperformance when it comes to silver
ahead of those oracle earnings from New
York. Good morning. This is Blue Brook
Surveillance.
We are close to all-time highs but not
exactly finding direction this morning.
Seeing stocks just come off a little
bit. futures just touch lower although
they had been down significantly more
earlier this morning. A focus on dollar
weakness although 116 is essentially
where we were when the Fed last met on
October 19th. Here we are again at
11635. We have been snoozeville in the
FX space. 10ear yields anything but we
see one basis point increase this
morning to 420 on that tenure. We had
been at 4.07 in the last Fed meeting. A
real question here about what is driving
the global bond sell-off in longer
duration notes. We see that across the
board in silver surging to new all-time
highs up a half a percent this morning
to more than $60 away from the cash
open. Here is here are your morning
movers with Danny Burgerer. Danny, hey
Lisa, it's earning season for some of
the big power players and what an
earning season it is. It's really fueled
by the AI boom and the positivity that
these companies see to capitalize off of
it. Gio GE Vernovia is one of them.
They've increased their buybacks,
increased their divid dividend,
increased the revenue that they see
coming in. In fact, they say that the
backlog for electrification for this
power player is going to double by 2028.
The reaction in share prices is one that
you might expect shares up 9.4%.
Uh elsewhere in terms of movers, we have
a new deal between Palanteer and the
Navy. The Navy is going to be using some
of their platform for their submarines.
It's a deal worth about just under $450
million. So, Palanteer rallying 1.3% off
the back of that in the pre-market.
Finally, we had earnings from Cracker
Barrel after the bell yesterday. Still
hurting, at least they say, from the
drama over its logo change that changed
and then didn't change because of
pressure from the White House and other
conservative commentators. The the
results were pretty poor. Their outlook,
they're burning more cash than they
expected. They're trying to cut back on
expenses. foot traffic fell 11% uh
through this most recent quarter. Uh the
CEO saying that a recovery will take
some time. Of course, it's not just the
logo drama. It's also just the pain for
a lot of these more kind of casual
restaurants. So, those shares down
almost 8% in the pre-market. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Danny. All about the
logo. Come on and forget everything else
on our radar this morning. The race to
replace J. Powell heating up according
to multiple sources. President Donald
Trump is interviewing Fed chair
finalists this week. Wasn't he doing it
last week? While the Financial Times
saying Kevin Hasset remains the front
runner. Meanwhile, Oracle set to report
quarterly results after the closing
bell. Investors looking for an update on
the health of its cloud infrastructure
business and proof that the future of AI
computing is sustainable. And Chinese
tech giants Alibaba and Bite Dance
reportedly eager to purchase Nvidia's
H200 chips. This is important. Reuters
reporting the tech giants have spoken
with Nvidia following the reversal of
export restrictions. We heard that
yesterday from President Trump. The
information also reporting that Chinese
official held officials held an
emergency meeting with tech giants
earlier to assess their chip demand. So
will they buy will they if we sell it
will they buy? The answer seems to be
yes. Yes it is definitely yes from the
seauite of these companies like Alibaba.
It seems like they're just waiting on
that final green light from the Chinese
government. Remember the Chinese
government told these firms to shrug off
the H20 when the US lifted that export
control. That was the chip Nvidia
designed specifically to sell into
China. China said, "No, we want the top
level." We heard Jensen Wong talk about
this recently, saying, "China does not
want a depreciated chip. They want the
full advanced chip." And now it looks
like they're going to get it. And the
appetite is there. Yeah. And this is
what people are tracking to understand
the tit for tat in the battle for AI
supremacy between the US and China.
Looking for the battle of supremacy in
the media space. The battle for Warner
Brothers discovery showing no signs of
letting up. The company not planning to
cancel its agreement to merge with
Netflix, putting the ball in Paramount's
court as it weighs the next steps.
Bloomberg's Gita Ragendathan joins us
now. It seems like this is truly going
to be a battle with Paramount appealing
directly to shareholders. How much do
you expect them to increase the share
price that they offer?
>> Yeah, I think they definitely have to
sweeten their bid at this point, Lisa.
So, the $30 per all cash bid that they
offered for Warner Brothers Discovery
and this is for the entire company. This
is something that they had submitted
last week to the board uh the Warner
Brothers board and the Warner Brothers
board obviously had uh rejected that and
gone for the Netflix offer which is a
slightly different offer. It's just for
the streaming and the studio business.
So everything really right now hinging
on the cable network business which
Paramount values at about a dollar a
share. Uh we think it's worth much
higher. I think the discovery Warner
Brothers discovery board also thinks
it's much higher. So as far as we are
looking at it, we think that they have
to at least sweeten their bid by a buck
or a buck 50 per share uh for it to
really kind of move the needle with the
Warner Brothers Discovery Board.
>> And just to put into perspective, Githa,
Warner Brothers has no incentive to
cancel the agreement with Netflix
because they would be on the hook then
to pay a pretty hefty fee. Correct.
>> They would have to pay $2.8 billion of a
termination fee if they decide to
cancel. And I don't think uh it makes
sense for them right now because I think
they also value the company slightly
higher. That said, I mean this is at the
end of the day, Lisa, I mean Warner
Brothers Discovery, David Zazlav really
wants to see his assets bid up as much
as possible. So, you know, if we're
looking something at like 34 $35 a
share, I think that's where he wants
this bidding war to, you know, kind of
kind of end. So, we'll have to wait and
watch, see what happens.
>> Who doesn't want that? Keith Ranken of
Liber Intelligence. Thank you so much.
Turning to financials, especially as we
get this surge of deals, JP Morgan
shares dropping by the most since April
after warning of higher than expected
costs. The bank saying compensation,
marketing, and AI investments are
driving up expenses. Erica Naggerian of
UBS has a buy rating on the stock, a
price target of $357. And Erica joins us
now in studio for more. Erica, wonderful
to see you. Thank you for being here.
>> Good to see you. Before we get into
that, the idea of the emphasis on
increasing costs, how much can that
supersede the idea that we're embarking
on an M&A boom that we were just talking
about, as well as potentially a surge in
IPOs. It's a commoditized business,
right? So, there's actually nothing that
JP Morgan does that's special versus
peers other than execute, right? So the
talent needed to close those deals, the
investments needed to, you know, be um
very competitive with American Express
Platin and would, you know, chase
Sapphire Reserve, that all costs money.
And you know what JP Morgan has shown us
really over the past 15 years is they've
been the heaviest grower of expenses
among the banks, but they've also had
the best revenue growth and the best
returns. So I'm not worried. I think
this is a timing thing with JP Morgan
and they'll give us the revenue number
in January, but I bet you that most of
the banks next year um and we got some
indication yesterday from a regional
bank that said they were also growing
expenses heavily next year. It's going
to be a year of saying, "Huh, we have
deregulation, we have a good revenue
backdrop, possibly a very steep yield
curve. Why not invest for the future?"
>> Well, this raises this issue of more
broadly in markets. Are we seeing
companies get penalized for spending on
AI versus earlier this year when it
companies couldn't spend enough and they
were rewarded for that investment with
the expectation that it would bring
efficiency and better execution? Is that
something that's a momentary blip or
something that you see lasting in the
financial space? I think it's a
momentary blip and I'll tell you why. We
actually had a meeting I think four
weeks ago now with the head of AI at JP
Morgan and what she said really opened
my eyes. She said, "Guys, you're all
asking me about ROI on AI investments,
but what's the ROI on internet access?
What's the ROI on having a PC?" So, what
what she was saying is that AI at the
desktop desktops or in terms of how you
know bankers go about their day is going
to be table stakes for the industry. So
I think it's a momentary blip especially
since a lot of investors seem keen on
the idea on the theme that AI could
lower costs meaningfully uh for
financials.
>> That's what I wanted to ask you. Wells
Fargo CEO yesterday was talking about
how artificial intelligence can actually
be the reason to bring down cost, but
when actually could we see that if right
now you're hearing from the likes of JP
Morgan that they're actually spending
more? Well, I think we're in the cycle
where you're not really going to see it
quite yet, and we don't quite know where
it's going to be improved productivity
or actual costs getting cut. Remember,
we're in a regulated industry. And so,
you know, I doubt any of these banks
will all of a sudden, you know, cut 30%
of their call centers and replace it
with aic AI, you know, only to have the
AI technology have a hallucination and
all of a sudden, you know, your your
grandmother isn't structured credit in
crypto, right? So,
Hallucination but carry on.
>> Hallucination. Exactly. But my point is
is that it's a regulated industry and I
don't think the regulators are as
advanced as the banks and understanding
and so they have to tread carefully. So
while that's an opportunity for certain
parts of the business over the long
term, I think we're going to go through
a period of you have to spend money to
be able to, you know, be at the top of
your class with regards to having this
technology for your employees. You
mentioned deregulation a few times. How
do you actually see the deregulation
working in real time? What are you
expecting in 2026 that maybe we didn't
get from the Trump administration 2025?
>> Yeah. So, perfect example, you know,
because this was rooted in law with the
Chevron case, the stress test had to
change immediately. In fact, it was a
Biden Fed that um you know, self-started
this in December of 2024. So all the
banks got great results um in June and
all of a sudden and again part of this
is the market demand as well. I mean
trading revenues just went off right and
there was actually more balance sheet
driven trading revenues as well. So
banks were you know taking more risk. So
that was the more immediate impact. On
Friday there was a leverage lending
limit that all of the federal agencies
pulled. A lot of the regional banks are
have been saying that that was been a
big catalyst for lending from banks
really going away to the non-banks right
and so that being pulled will be you
know a big immediate impact for next
year and of course you have all the
capital um you know the leverage ratio
the G sub searchcharge you have all that
on top to be regulated and what that
really means is that there's more
balance sheet for markets but more
importantly more balance sheet for Main
Street. I'm thinking right now of a $59
billion bridge loan uh from Wells Fargo
BMP and HSBC for the Netflix bid for
Warner Brothers. I'm just wondering how
much this expansion effectively of their
balance sheets going to help fuel what
we're seeing in M&A and IPOs with the
pace really heating up and financing
seemingly plentiful.
>> Market is near all-time highs, spreads
are at all-time heights and you know
bank balance sheets even before you
redefine capital. I mean, they have
plenty of room, right? I mean, they have
been losing direct lending to non-banks
for quite some time now, so they have
plenty of room. And so, I guess it sets
up pretty well for, you know, a a a
pretty nice I was going to say the word
frothy, but who knows, for a frothy
2026. It's like giving, you know, sugar
to your kid, right? Maybe he'll stay
awake for a while. I don't know how long
the economy will stay awake for, but it
makes sense. We have the midterm
elections coming up and I'm sure that
this administration will put lipstick
contour on this economy to get it
through the finish line, right? And um
the president started to talk about make
affordability great again. So I think
we're starting he talked about the
tariffs checks. Um so I I think it's
going to be, you know, um a big year for
de increasing demand for bank balance
sheets. I'm feeling the holiday evening
putting on makeup, giving the kid hot
cocoa, seeing them go absolutely
bonkers, but then they crash. And that's
exactly what I was going to say, but
essentially, you're building risk,
you're building the froiness, you're
building the excitement, and they
haven't taken a nap. So, at what point
do you get worried about the other side?
>> Look, I mean, I use the sugar analogy
very precisely, right? I'm a mom. Look,
I'm a little bit nervous. like we have
been like pumping this economy and
obviously we're seeing a little bit of
um you know fraying at the seams. The
unemployment picture is not fully
bright, right? We have um you know,
white collar layoffs that you guys have
announced at various points over the
past quarter. Um you know, you have a
str a real struggle with university
graduates finding jobs. Um and of course
you have, you know, uh government jobs
being um reduced. So, you know, I mean,
again, we could put the lipstick and the
contour and the band-aid in the economy,
but underneath the surface, like what's
going to happen and with, you know, the
tariff policy, right? Um, the consumers
aren't feeling it, but if you have
thinner margins at companies, that means
that, you know, that's not going to be
great for hiring. And, you know, credit
quality, credit quality is going to be
is the end all beall in bank stocks,
right? So it's everything is fine in
2026, but you know, is there is there a
nap? Is there a crash that's going to
happen in 2027? You know, let's see. And
it's it's going to be very important who
we have in the Fed at the Fed in terms
of um policy and credibility with the
bond market.
>> Erica, thank you so much for being with
us. Wonderful to have you as always.
Erica Nagarian of UBS and good luck in
the holiday celebration. Right now,
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. this morning. Here is your
bloom brief with Yahira Anna. Deihyra.
>> Hi, Lisa. Oak Tree Capital co-founder
Howard Mark says AI has created a
terrifying outlook for employment. He
warns that the assumed productivity boom
from AI fails to consider how many
people will be able to afford the
additional goods produced.
Meanwhile, Amazon making a big
investment in India. The company
pledging to invest $ 35 billion in the
country over the next 5 years. In a
statement, Amazon saying it will invest
in areas such as AI and logistics
infrastructure, helping create an
additional 1 million jobs in India. And
Australia begins a ban on social media
today for anyone under 16. Platforms are
facing hefty fines if they fail to block
young users. Tik Tok, Instagram,
Snapchat, YouTube, and Reddit say they
will comply despite opposing the rules.
Policy makers in countries including
Indonesia, Denmark, and Brazil are
weighing similar measures. That's brief.
Lisa, thank you so much, Yhier. I
thought this was fascinating. I am
actually really looking forward to see
exactly how effective this is. Although
I heard that Discord downloads actually
just went off the hook for people who
are preparing for their summer vacation
down in Australia. Well, when it comes
to what national sec sorry social
security concerns for teens that are
dealing with things like Tik Tok, you're
seeing this on a state level actually a
lot more pressure, especially from
parents putting on the legislature or
governors to do something about it.
>> Yeah, definitely something uh front and
focus. Meanwhile, talking about the
Federal Reserve up next, balancing the
dual mandate.
>> Central banks are getting to the end of
their cutting cycles. From here, it's
going to take further weakness in the
labor market to get them to move a lot
more. Lea Richardson of ADP joins us
next as we take a look at the labor
market. Globally, you're seeing bond
yields surging to the highest levels
going back to 2009. In the United
States, 10-year yields at 4.2%. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
kind of meandering around. It was a
Santa Claus rally that just got it got
stalled out ahead of the Fed meeting
right now. Uh really seeing just a touch
of losses across the board. S&P futures
lower by a tenth of a percent. NASDAQ
underperforming uh down 2/10en of a
percent in pre-market trading. If you
take a look at twos, tens, and 30s, the
action has been and continues to be at
the long end of the yield curve. That's
where you're continuing to see a
sell-off on the price. An increase in
the yields with 10ear yields at 420.
30-year yields at 4.81%.
The 2-year yield back on October 29th
when the Fed last met was 3.6%. Guess
where it is right now? 3.62% has not
moved. It has been a yield curve
steepening ahead of this central bank
meeting. under surveillance this morning
balancing the dual mandate.
>> The US labor market is soft right now,
relatively weak, you might even say. Our
view is that as you move through 2026,
it looks stable, resilient, even
improves as it goes along, and that's
what's going to determine the Fed
cutting path. From here, it's going to
take further weakness in the labor
market to get them to move a lot more.
Central banks are getting to the end of
their cutting cycle. So, that's
something that investors have to really
make a big call on for 2026.
>> Here's the latest. Investors weighing
mixed signals from the labor market as
policy makers gear up for the final Fed
rate decision of the year year. Nila
Richardson of ADP highlighting the
warning signs coming from small
businesses writing small employers
historically have been a bellweather for
the macro economy. The pullback in small
business hiring has led to large losses
for the labor market as a whole. Nila
joins us now. Nila, wonderful to speak
with you, especially given the lack of
clarity everywhere else. Yesterday's
Jolt data was a mystery wrapped in a
riddle depending on which angle you
looked at it. Why are you taking such a
signal from small businesses?
>> Because they're the engine of growth for
the economy. I mean if you look at the
very smallest firms for 10 workers, US
workers work in those firms and those
are firms with under 50 employees. And
if you even go up to 250, you have
three4s of US employees
working at those firms. So we watch the
headlines from the big companies but the
hiring comes from the small ones and
they're more vulnerable to macroeconomic
conditions whether they're to the
downside or to the upside. So these are
the firms that are going to signal prog
progress. It's the small firms when they
start hiring broadly that's when we know
that the uh labor market is not only
resilient but dynamic which is what we
need for an AI future. Nila, is the
small business indication that you're
seeing in markets right now a
forward-looking indicator, a
backward-looking indicator, or a
coincident indicator given the fact that
people are looking for visibility not to
the end of this year but into 2026?
>> Yeah. So, market small firms and small
cap is a little different than the mom
and pop stores that we we were tracking
in terms of the the labor market. I
think what we're seeing in the markets
is a very strong upward movement uh led
by tech firms. But for the small firms
that I'm talking about, the ones that
you buy like your paper towels from at
the bodega in New York City, um they're
not represented in the markets. And
that's why it's so important uh to keep
a mindful eye towards the hiring rate.
If you look at that Jolt Joltz report,
there was a lot of attention to job
openings. my eye was laser focused on
the hiring rate which stepped down from
September to October. And Lisa, this is
where uh the metal meets the road
because it's not just about one month.
It's about the frequency of pullbacks on
Main Street whenever they feel some
turbulence on the macro side.
>> When it comes to those small businesses,
could a likely Fed rate cut today help?
>> It could help. It's not going to help
immediately. Uh it could help because
small firms get their financing from
banks and so rate cuts uh lead to loans
that are cheaper which means that they
can expand their companies and their
hiring count. But that doesn't happen
overnight. It doesn't happen in a month.
It doesn't even really happen in a
quarter. And so if you take a long-term
view on those rate cuts, uh they do hit
Main Street but with a lag long and
variable.
>> You also mentioned the JOLS data.
October job openings I know did get a
lot of fanfare, but it's because it
increased the highest level in five
months. That is good news. Where exactly
are those openings?
Yeah, we're we're seeing some good news
actually as well uh in our week weekly
NE pulse report that we released
yesterday. We saw an uptick in hiring
for uh the week ending November 22nd.
So, it rhymes with some of the better
news in terms of job openings. But if
you look at where hiring has been strong
even for small firms, actually only for
small firms, it's been in health care.
Um that has been the key to unlocking
the labor market. Um and I would expect
overall even with a the jolt signal that
uh health care would be the industry
that will be doing the lion share of the
work for the labor market.
>> Nila, I know that you've been doing some
work uh with some Stanford researchers
on artificial intelligence and the
ramifications for the labor market.
Howard Marks in a memo yesterday came
out and said uh that artificial
intelligence was terrifying for the
labor market in terms of some of the
destructive capabilities uh removing the
need for certain jobs. Are you seeing
that increasingly used as an excuse? We
always kind of take your temperature on
this, but what's the latest on that
front?
>> Yeah, we've seen some AI impact on early
career. Stanford researchers, the
Stanford Digital Economy Lab looked at
ADP data and they were able to slice it
by demographics and you're seeing a
slowdown and AI exposed occupations like
software developers when it comes to
young uh college graduates uh the 22 to
25 year old range but not for tenur
workers. And I think that's very
important to keep in mind. Look,
technology automation and displacement
is not new. It happens with every
productivity cycle. What could be new
for AI is making mediocre performers
great and making great performers thrive
and excellent. And that's kind of what
the data is suggesting right now. Even
this early data, it is increasing
employment for tenur workers and other
research that Stanford has done shows
that in an increase of low performers to
higher performing standards. So, we're
still in the early part of this boom.
And if AI fulfills its promise, it's not
just going to automate, it's going to
create. and it's going to create
something new, unique, and different
than what human creators can do.
>> Love the optimism. Neila Richardson of
ADP, thank you so much for being with us
on this prefed morning. And really, this
is going to be the focus, right? How
much is structural? How much is
cyclical? Are we seeing lagging
indications of weakness or is this
something more pernitious as we change
in terms of technological leadership?
Yeah, and I'm really glad you brought up
that Howard Marx blog post because he
talked about these promises that
potentially some billionaires on coast
having all this money making this
technology that puts millions out of
work and what does that mean
politically? I already think we're
seeing that and that is why we
continuously be in this populist wave
and how does the Fed address AI induced
labor cuts very you can't right which is
uh something that they've talked about
in terms of do you see at least an
increase in productivity coming up next
Chris Harvey in his new seat at CIBC
Sarah Bianke of Evercore ISI Lindseay
PGA of Stifel and Tony Rodriguez of New
as we await that Fed meeting that
concludes later today. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
>> We're in a process of normalization of
interest rates.
>> We also anticipate further rate cuts in
the coming year.
>> The market's been pretty anchored to
sort of having the year-end target range
kind of around 3% at the end of next
year.
>> The rate cuts are baked in as far as the
yield curve, you know, shows you. We
don't think the Fed should be cutting
rates at every meeting from now until
next June.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. On this Fed day, stocks
looking for direction. Bonds have
direction. They're going down. Yield
surging globally despite expectations
for a rate cut at today's Fed meeting
with investors looking to the end of a
worldwide easing cycle. And in the
United States, economic data keeps
showing that mixed picture, the mystery
in the labor market. Wage inflation
report due out today around 8:30 a.m.
Oracle set to report earnings after the
bell with a real question about how much
AI can keep bolstering uh expectations.
>> And one portfolio manager u that owns
Oracle says their neck is sticking out
because when they announced this massive
debt deal, their stock fell 33%. 3
months ago when they reported earnings,
it was one of the best days they had.
shares absolutely ripping. Now, everyone
is concerned because there are still
fears in the AI bubble and the fact that
all of these companies are tapping the
debt market and then there's a lot of
questions about the circular financing
of all of it. You can have my chips, I
will invest in your company doesn't make
a lot of sense at this moment. 2026 is
going to be huge for this trade. Yeah.
And this is a reason why I keep thinking
of John Stolesfist this morning who
comes in the biggest blow on Wall Street
singing it's the way you do the things
you do because ultimately it is about
the debt side of things. In the debt
side of things, it really is bonds front
and focus this morning ahead of that Fed
meeting. Torston Sllock put out a note
this morning from Apollo saying a
mystery in fixed income. The bottom line
is that the yield curve continues to
steepen and investors across all asset
classes need to think about why as we do
see the biggest sell-off yields rising
on the 10-year denomination globally to
the highest level since 2009. And
anytime I started talking about the
deficit this morning or potentially
other concerns about inflation, a lot of
people are saying no, this is a global
problem. The United States may be done
with the easing cycle today or maybe
just one cut next year. You have Japan
preparing for a hike. You have to look
at what's going on in Australia. The ECB
is not hiking anymore. And this is just
a global phenomenon. Has nothing to do
what's going on in the United States.
Time will tell. Yeah. And this is a
reason why people are looking at the
reaction to the Fed meeting that kicks
off in terms of rate decision. We get
that decision at 2:00 p.m. Eastern time.
At 2:30 p.m., we get the duck, the lame
duck coming out, uh Jerome Powell.
Although, is he right? This is really
going to be the key question as he takes
the helm of this press conference at
2:30 p.m. Eastern in Washington DC. How
much clout does he still have on the Fed
committee given the fact that he has a
good degree of respect at this point?
And then after that, we get Oracle
earnings. Get a sense and a read as
Amory was talking about of just how much
people are getting tired of the
debtfueled cycle. Coming up this hour,
don't miss this. Chris Harvey of CIBC
going risk on into the new year. Sarah
Bianke of Evercore as President Trump
tests his affordability message and
Lindseay PZA of Stifel as Fed chair
finalist Kevin Hasset pushes for a
bigger rate cut. We begin this hour with
stock stable ahead of the Fed decision
as well as more tech earnings. Chris
Harvey, head of equity and portfolio
strategy at CIBC, writing, "We expect
risk on into 2026 and do believe we see
a seven handle on the S&P before year
end." Chris joins us now from his new
seat for more. Chris, wonderful to see
you. Thank you so much for being here.
>> It's good to be back.
>> Congratulations. Thank you.
>> So, let's just talk about heading into
next year, the role of the Federal
Reserve in this because it is Fed day.
How much is it crucial that the Fed does
keep easing at a time where there are
increasing questions about the capacity
to do so?
>> That's a tough question cuz we're in the
transition, right? And so there's let's
just talk about today. There's a lot of
thought that this is going to be a
hawkish cut that Pal's going to come out
cut 25 basis points and throw water on
the belief that we're going to have any
more cuts. I'm not really sure even if
he does that. I'm not really sure the
market believes that because the
candidates that are coming in are a lot
more doubbish than that. So I think we
we walk through that. I think the market
believes that we're going to have a
doubish Fed more accommodation in 2026.
So I'm not too worried about things
right here right now. The other thing I
I think Powell will probably go right
down the middle. He'll say we're data
driven, right? He's not going to he's
not going to lean one way or the other.
He'll just say we're data driven and
leave it at that. So I that's one of the
reasons why I think in the short term
we're still in a riskon type period. But
in 2026 I think we're going to have a
lot more flare ups in risk. will have a
lot more bouts of risk aversion in 2026
or the first half of 26. It's really
about risk mitigation and and trying to
keep up to keep up with the market but
really protect to the downside.
>> What risk mitigation is most necessary?
The risk of overheating AI uh valuations
or the risk of a US economy showing some
signs of strain.
>> Not not so much about the US economy.
It's really the the return to risk is
exceptional this year and it's right
across the board. If you look at IG
credit spreads, they're at, I think, 77
basis points. We haven't seen that
coming into a new year since 2005. If
you look at the return to risk, the S&P
uh high beta index, it's up 33 34%. A
and we expected that post liberation
day, but not 6 and 9 months later. And
so what we think is is the bid for risk
has gone a little bit too far. And when
we turn the calendar, what you're going
going to do is you're going to reset
risk budgets. you're going to to have uh
a lot more concern about the Fed. You'll
have perceptions about the economy go a
and so as a result we'll see more bouts
of risk aversion. We'll see more more
spikes in volatility. But at the end of
the day, we still think the upside
there's still upside to be had.
>> You say the wild card today is Oracle
and you're really watching that for
risk. Is that going to paint the tone
for the rest of this AI trade?
>> No. So it it's funny you say that
because if you look and there's been a
lot of talk about the paper that that's
been sold, right? A lot of hyperscalers
have have issued paper, but if you look
at Meta, Google, I think it was Amazon,
all that paper is trading better than
when it was issued. Oracle is off its
wides, but still wide. And so what it's
saying is Oracle is over here and other
hyperscalers are over there. And so yes,
it's a wild card because it's such a big
risk at this point in time and all eyes
are focused on it. But if you look at
the broader market, the broader
hyperscaler market, it actually is
performing pretty well and the market's
not that worried about it. it's more
idiosyncratic.
>> So when you say there's going to be
volatility in 2026, 2025 was all about
policy uncertainty in Washington. What
is 2026?
>> Well, I I think the first thing maybe
I'll throw out a phrase. It's about the
corporate collar, right? So at the
beginning of the year, what do you do?
You issue guidance. It's been a great
year for a lot of stocks. A lot of
stocks have done well. So what am I
going to do? What makes sense? I'm going
to manage expectations down. So that's
one area where risk may come in. We're
having a transition with the Fed. We
don't really know how that transition is
going to go. It's it's it's long.
Usually the Fed transition is at the
beginning of the year. This is not until
May. Leaves a lot for interpretation.
And then lastly, expectations for the
market for stocks are increasingly high.
That p at the very least that perception
can change or that can disappoint. So
there's tons of area where you can get
more volatility next year.
>> Do you believe in the rotation trade
which is something that everyone seems
to be talking about
>> a little bit? What what I'm thinking is,
you know, we were going around the desk,
hey, what's what's the consent what's
the contrarian trade? What's the the
non-consensus trade and the non-conensus
trade is everyone says it's the
rotation, but suddenly it's become the
consensus trade. So, I'm a little bit
worried about it. What I'm also saying
is there's been a lot of talk of bubble,
but when we go back and we look at
things, the banking sector and JP Morgan
has outperformed large swaths of of the
technology sector over the last three
and five years. And so where the
consensus trade is seems to be in
financials at this point in time, not so
much across the tech sector, believe it
or not.
>> So this really goes to the heart of a
question of how much is this market
dependent on federal rate cuts. The
rotation trade is to some degree the
idea that that will help bolster some of
the more cyclally facing uh areas. How
much is the tech sector also very much
beholden on an accommodated Federal
Reserve? I I would say I it's it's
helpful, but the bigger issue is credit
spreads at 77 basis points. If credit
spreads start to widen significantly,
that's going to take a lot of risk off.
That's that's going to repric risk,
right? We'll continue to debate whether
the Fed's going to cut, how much they're
going to cut. Yesterday, it looks like
uh has to put 50 on the table. Again,
perceptions are going to swing wildly,
but really keep a focus, keep an eye on
what credit spreads are doing. They're
really tight, right? If they stay that
way, things are okay, things are fine.
They start widening out, that's where we
have the real problem.
>> So, a question about cockroaches. I'm
sorry to bring it back up. It's always
kind of unfortunate this early in the
morning, but we did see First Brands,
which did become insolvent, already run
into more trouble trouble. The idea that
loans are selling off once again with
further questions even after some of the
rescue financing. Is this a one-off or
does this indicate sort of loose
standards and oversight on the part of
lenders even when it comes to known
troubled names?
>> Yeah, I I'll throw out a old phrase. I
think there's been too many dollars
chasing too few assets and we have
gotten a little fast and loose in
certain things. The the first brands
looks more idiosyncratic than anything
else. But yeah, should you be concerned?
Absolutely you should be concerned. But
when we look at the broader market, when
we look at high yield and IG, it's
performing quite well and there's still
a ton of liquidity there. So, we're not
worried about it just yet, but we are we
are on um let's just say we're waving
the yellow flag. We're being cautious
>> between now and the end of the year.
What do you need to know to get a
year-end price target for 2026 in the
works?
>> Well, what I need is a little bit more
time.
Uh it's been uh uh it's been great at
CIBC, but it's a ready, fire, aim type
situation. So, it's been go go go and I
just really just need a little bit more
time. That that's all,
>> right? Yes. You don't need actually any
answers in the market. Just some more
time to digest it all.
>> That that's it.
>> So, I'm just wondering just to finish up
here, how different is it to work for a
Canadian bank at a time of some pretty
fraught relations between the US and
Canada? You know, it's it's really
interesting because you hear both sides
o of the commentary and both sides of
the narrative and I feel a lot more
informed at this point in time. Also,
you have a broader view of what's
happening, a more holistic view. So, for
me, it's a lot more informative. It I I
feel like I understand the situation,
the issues much better. A and because
the information is coming from both
sides of the border, right? Um, some
things uh the Canadians see and know a
little bit faster, some things that the
US see and know a little bit faster and
I'm in a great seat to really understand
that and digest it.
>> Chris Harvey, so good to see you.
Congratulations again. Chris Harvey of
CIBC and happy holidays uh going
forward. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomberg brief
with Yahara on it. Yhierra,
>> hi Lisa. Chinese AI startup Deep Seek
was found to have used Nvidia's
top-of-the-line Blackwell chips in the
development of its next major model.
Sources telling the information that the
chips were smuggled into China through a
scheme involving Blackwell chips
delivered to servers in other countries
before being dismantled and brought into
China. Meanwhile, President Donald Trump
reiterating that he has a good idea of
who he wants for Fed chair. According to
multiple sources, the president will
begin interviews with the person to
replace J. Powell this week. The
Financial Times saying Kevin Hasset
remains the front runner, but his
selection is not guaranteed.
And a Democrat has won Miami's mayoral
race for the first time in nearly 30
years. Eileen Higgins will also be the
first woman ever to lead Miami. Higgins
beat Republican Emilio Gonzalez, who was
endorsed by President Trump. That's
brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yahira, this Miami
story is actually kind of a significant
deal. I'm wondering, Amh, your take on
it given the fact this comes after the
mid midterm elections and the
shellacking that the Republicans got and
it's another boost for Democrats ahead
of the midterms. The same night the
president was out because he talked
about how affordability has become an
issue and he said, "My team, like Susie
Wild, his chief of staff said, you need
to get on the road ahead of the
midterms." There is a lot of concern
right now in Congress, which is why you
might see a lot of Republicans actually
retire because they know that this is
going to be an incredibly challenging
midterm election for them. So, how did
President Trump do last night? Up next,
testing the affordability message.
>> Lower prices, bigger paychecks,
inflation. We're crushing it. The only
thing that you that's really going up
big, it's called the stock market and
your 401ks.
>> Sarah Bianke of Evercore joining next.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Getting
a little bit of a soggginess ahead of
that Fed meeting at least in equity
futures across the board just fading a
touch after seeing near all-time highs.
is led by the NASDAQ 100 futures lower
by 210 of a percent. A similar decline
in Russell 2000 ahead of the open and
the S&P uh futures lower by about a
tenth of a percent possibly due to
what's going on in the income space 10
and30s seeing just that ongoing selloff
that bleed upward in yields driven by
the long end that we have seen globally.
It is a global phenomenon. Nonetheless,
the fact that 30-year yields are 4.82%
82% in the United States ahead of a $22
billion auction today at 1 p.m. gives
some people pause as Torch Suzak of
Apollo said why are these yields rising?
You need to ask that question as they
become unmed from the front end of the
yield curve under surveillance this
morning testing the affordability
message.
>> The new word is affordability.
So they look at the camera and they say
this election is all about
affordability.
>> I have no higher priority than making
America affordable again. Lower prices,
bigger paychecks. $1.99 a gallon. How
would you like to have 199 inflation?
We're crushing it. The only thing that
you It's really going up big. It's
called the stock market and your 401ks.
>> Here's the latest. President Trump
touting his administration's economic
policies in the battleground state of
Pennsylvania, hoping to ease
affordability concerns and possibly
assuage some concerns in his polling
numbers. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins
us now. Tyler, what was new from some of
his proposals or commentary last night
as he tries to get this uh message under
control?
>> Yeah. Hey, Lisa. Good morning. To be
honest, a lot of what we heard from
President Trump sounded similar, though
this event was designed to be a kickoff
of sorts of what's expected to be a
domestic tour heading into the midterms.
President Trump really trying to tout
his policies in this bid to tamp down on
concerns related to affordability as new
polling and also data shows us that
sentiment has been souring. Just look at
this new survey out from Fox News this
week which shows that 76% of American
voters feel negative about the economy.
Plus, pair that with election wins for
Democrats last night. You had mentioned
earlier in the program the win for
Democrats in Miami for that mayoral
race. I'll also point out Democrats were
able to flip a key Georgia state house
seat last night long held by
Republicans, too. Now, President Trump
zeroed in on his tariff policies, saying
that he thinks people are starting to
understand the benefits of his tariff
regime, though did concede that he's
gotten some heat in his words for those
policies. Now, in recent weeks, we've
really seen his aids try to urge the
public to be patient even as the
administration starts to roll out new
ideas such as investigations into food
supply chains and of course, President
Trump floating the idea of tariff
revenue rebate checks. Now, it's going
to be another affordability issue though
that's going to ramp up the pressure on
this White House as we head into the end
of the year and Congress grapples with
that deadline for the expiring
Affordable Care Act premium tax
subsidies. And Lisa, while it was our
understanding that last night was going
to be solely focused on the economy, of
course, President Trump also hit on some
other key issues that we know pull well
with his base, including immigration
policies and also former President
Biden's use of the auto pen. I bring
that up because last night on stage, he
spoke about this idea of potentially
launching an investigation into whether
Biden used the auto pen for the
appointments of Federal Reserve
governors. We should say experts say
we're not actually expecting an
investigation to be launched here. We
won't get into all the legal
complications associated with this, but
I bring it up, of course, because on
this Fed day, it just shows us another
illustration of how President Trump has
been ramping up the pressure on the
central bank.
>> Tyler uh Tyler Kendall, thank you so
much. And I'm really glad that Tyler
brought up the autopen issue because on
one hand, you got to say he can't be
serious. On the other hand, maybe this
will lead to an investigation because
clearly this administration wants to get
a greater majority on the FOMC. Well, he
called out Scott Bessant, not just
saying that he's a perfect exterior, but
saying he's going to check on this
because he says it is a problem going
after these four individuals that were
appointed. Of course, Powell was
reappointed, but I'm thinking of Lisa
Cook, Bar, and Cougler that were
appointed by the Biden administration. I
think it just signals that this
administration is looking at the Fed a
little bit more holistically, not just
the chair, and they really want to
remake it, but these are Senate
confirmed individuals. this is going
nowhere
>> which is uh but it does underscore this
question around affordability around the
Fed's role and exactly what this
administration can and will do in order
to address the problem. Sarah Bianke of
Evercore ISI joins us now for more.
Sarah I want to start there this idea of
how much are you looking at the
potential for this administration to
truly take actions in the next few weeks
as we do get a sense that polling really
is shifting away from the president when
it comes to the affordability message.
Well, I'm not sure he's going to be able
to take
action in the next couple of weeks, but
I do think that looking into uh 2026,
the State of the Union is going to be
critical. And uh it's very hard for
presidents in this kind of situation,
not to be defensive, not to defend their
own policies. But I do think by the time
he gets to the new year, he's going to
have to come up with some policy ideas.
the tariff rebate. Uh probably the most
specific that we've seen, but he'll want
to uh put some ideas, more ideas out on
housing, energy, uh and then as you
mentioned, uh figure out what he's going
to do in this healthcare space.
>> Sarah, when it comes to the president's
speech last night, he once again talked
about how the word tariffs is one of his
favorite words. At the same time, we do
see the administration looking at some
tariff rates on especially food
products, agricultural products, and
they're actually clawing them back. Do
they have a message that they need to
recalibrate when it comes to trade?
Well, it's really interesting. The size
and scope of the food tariffs uh really
wasn't particularly significant. Uh and
so while I do expect them to claw back
in some areas, I expect generally
speaking the tariff uh overall tariff
rate to stay relatively uh constant next
year. Uh even that's even likely through
uh what we think will probably be a loss
in the Supreme Court. So he is making
some adjustments. Uh but by and large,
this is his signature policy and I think
they're going to uh try to keep it as
intact at least as they can. If you
think they're going to lose the ability
to use AIPA, what are you planning for
then? What Especially as you were a a
former trade representative, what are
you planning for then terms of what this
administration is going to put in its
place?
>> Well, they can do a series of 301
investigations and there's a lot of
legal precedent for that. The challenge
is those do take time. It's a little bit
strange to do it on uh so many countries
as they would have to do to replace
AIPA. But uh again we think they're
fairly uh committed to this. Uh there is
a question of how they might bridge the
gap because those will take a bit of
time. Uh there's some authority section
122 has been mentioned that allows for a
15%. Uh but I think our general message
to the market is uh look uh at this
point when we're sitting here next year,
maybe tariff rates will be a little bit
lower than they are today, but don't
expect them to go anywhere near where we
started in 2025, uh which was quite low,
2 to 3%.
>> When it comes to China, the
administration, as you know, is now
giving the green light for H20s to go to
Beijing. And we do see that the Chinese
government is calling on these companies
and seeing what the appetite is. And it
seems that the appetite is there. Do you
think this administration is putting the
economy and trade above national
security?
Well, I certainly think that uh many of
the kind of MAGA advocates and China
hawks in the administration uh and
outside of it uh are concerned that uh
the kind of pro tech AI um uh parts of
the administration continue uh to be
winning. There are a lot of people who
argue uh that selling uh those chips is
a national security risk. uh but
irrespective of that you see uh again
and again calling for um federal
preeemption of state regulation of AI uh
chips um uh deregulation. So a very very
pro- AI posture that the administration
has taken this year obviously helping
fuel the market and and economic gains
we've seen. But I do uh think as they
get into the midterms. There are a lot
of people including uh Steve Bannon who
are saying watch out this stuff's not
very popular with uh the MAGA base and
with lots of Americans.
>> Well, it raises a question. The
information is reporting this morning
that Deep Seek is using banned Nvidia
chips as it does create some new more
efficient models when it comes to search
and other AI techn uh technology. How
much do you see this as being the source
of a real uh flare up in terms of
tensions between the US and China in the
upcoming months?
>> Well, this the administration is doing
its best to keep things uh calm in in
what is a very fragile day tant. Uh you
hear Bessant and Jameson Greer saying,
"Oh, everything's going well. They're
implementing everything uh that we've
said. Uh kind of nothing to see here."
And uh some of that is to again maintain
stability uh to try and give the United
States some time to catch up around rare
earths. Uh but you're also starting to
see uh Republicans in Congress and
governors and state AGs a bit more vocal
on this as the president's numbers have
come down and they start to feel a bit
more uh liberated to be more
fullthroated on their own view. So, I do
think it's very possible that you could
see more and more people start to raise
concerns whether it's the selling of
these chips or whether it's whether you
know they have uh chips they shouldn't
have. Uh I think this will continue to
be uh fraught in 2026 and it will be
very hard uh to maintain this fragile
day tant without any disruptions next
year. Sarah Bianke of Evercore, thank
you so much for being with us in this
report from the information saying that
Nvidia's state-of-the-art Blackwell
chips have been smuggled in and have uh
back been been behind uh some of the
gains that we've seen from DeepSeek and
those chips Blackwell is banned in
China. Right now, the administration's
given the green light for the H200s, but
Blackwell is banned. And at the same
time, we talked about this yesterday,
the administration doing one thing and
saying another given they're going after
smugglers for the H200.
>> We've got more on that coming up. Also,
Lindsey Pigs of Stifel as the search for
the next Fed chair enters the final
stage.
Some skepticism ahead of the Fed meeting
later today. A question around just how
much the Fed is poised to disappoint a
market looking for Fed rate cuts, not
just this year, but really heading into
2026. Right now, just a little bit of a
softness in equity futures ahead of the
open, down about a tenth of a percent on
the S&P. A little bit of dollar
weakness. We've seen real stability in
the FX cross just because there as many
concerns over in Europe as there have
been here in the United States. Watch
this space though. The big question this
morning, why are long bond yields rising
so much globally? In the United States,
10-year yields uh in the US 4.2% up
almost two basis points this morning.
That is up from 4.07%
the last time the FedE met. What is
going on here? Silver prices meanwhile
at another all-time record high up
6/10en of a percent in pre-market
trading. Two hours away from the cash
open. Here are your morning movers.
Danny Burgerer. Danny. Hey Lisa.
Starting with GE Venovia reporting
earnings incredibly strong, upping a
dividend, upping its buybacks, upping
its projections for electrification
demand. They see their backlog doubling
by 2028. That's thanks to the demand,
you guessed it, AI data centers. Those
shares up 10.4%. And also trading higher
this morning, Palunteer reaching a new
deal with the US Navy. The US Navy for
their submarine services will be using
Palunteer technology. That contract
worth about $450 million. So those
shares moving higher by 1.2%. Rounding
things out with earnings we got at the
top of the hour and that is the pet
company Chewy. Shares are up 3.3%. Sales
mostly in line to a little bit higher,
but again maybe these more consumerf
facing companies, there's some fears
around. So that was good news. Uh the
company CEO also saying that they are
growing. They are taking market share.
So shares up three and a third percent
to the pre-market. Lisa, thank you so
much. Always checking a look at taking a
look at pet food as a key gauge of
people's devotion to their pets and
consumer appetite. Right now under
surveillance this morning, Chinese AI
startup Deepseek has been using Nvidia's
top-of-the-line Blackwell chips to
develop its next model. sources telling
the information that the chips were
illegally brought into China where they
remain banned through a complex
smuggling operation. This follows a
discussion yesterday around a DOJ probe
to two individuals about possibly
smugging H200 chips. These are the more
advanced version and really underscore
some concerns about the relationship
between these two countries. And what
does the US government do especially
since they are trying to make sure that
the temperature is low on a low boil
when it comes to China and the United
States? The president will be going
there early next year. He had this day
taunt with Xi Jinping and now they're
giving the green light for the H200.
At the same time, the DOJ is actually
going after smugglers of the H200. So
they really need to decide what is the
strategy going forward because at some
point we've have seen this
administration. Say one thing but do
another when it comes to national
security concerns and export controls.
>> So back in October when President Trump
uh met with Xihinping he said that
Blackwell is 10 years ahead of every
other chip and that China would not have
access to them. This information report
says that that actually uh DeepSeek had
access to the Blackwell chips in the
last quarter of 2024 at the same time
that companies including Google,
Microsoft and Open AAI started to
receive them. Really raising questions
about first of all how much the US is
going to do in terms of creating this
distance, this bifurcation in the chip
world between the US and China, but how
effective they've been to date. How
effective they've been to date in terms
of making sure these chips don't get
into the wrong hands. Clearly, they are
happening. And remember when Deep Seek
came onto the scene earlier this year,
people were saying, "Don't you think
part of this has to be them stealing US
chips that are banned in order to have
this level of technology?" And I go back
to what Jensen Wong has said many times.
And he's recalibrated a little bit
because it's politically fraught, but he
has said basically China is neckand-neck
with the United States when it comes to
the arms race.
>> Yeah. And how much does this potentially
increase that race? Meanwhile, President
Trump suggesting he could remove Federal
Reserve governors appointed by President
Biden if their commissions were signed
by autopen. The president asking
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson to
investigate.
>> Have you checked that? Are you hearing
it? Who signed it? Did he sign it or did
the autopen sign it? I think it's
something we have to look into. They
they put people there that are not
authorized to be there. I'm hearing that
the auto pen could have signed maybe all
four, but maybe a couple of them. We'll
take two.
>> The Federal Reserve declined to comment
on the president's claim. It does raise
questions though how far the
administration is willing to go to try
to get some more dominance and control
over the FOMC. I think it signals that
they really do want to remake the
Federal Reserve. A lot of
administrations come in and their goal
and dream is to maybe get someone on the
Supreme Court, right, for legacy. This
administration really seems the Federal
Reserve in the same way. And they
understand, you heard Scott Besson
recently talk about this, understands
that the Fed chair definitely has an
enormous amount of clout at the Federal
Reserve, but it's a deliberative body.
So, they're looking at potentially,
they've already done so with Lisa Cook
and looked at potentially these other
individuals, but this would mean a ton
of legal push back and also these
individuals were Senate confirmed, so
not really going anywhere anytime soon.
Yeah, the Fed meeting today at 2 p.m. We
get that rate decision at 2:30 p.m. We
get Fed Chair Jay Pal's press
conference. We'll get more on that in
just a second. Amazon and Microsoft
announcing a combined $52 billion
investment plan for India. Amazon
planning to pump $35 billion into India
by 2030 as Microsoft commits to more
than $17 billion.
It's fantastic to see uh this all
landing and ultimately being able to be
parlay these tokens per dollar per watt
into all of the applications systems
that are going to get deployed broadly
across the country. And so the 17.5
billion which is the largest investment
uh we made in Asia to date. Uh and so
we're uh thrilled about it.
>> Google also recently pledging $15
billion to build data centers in India.
Turning back to the Federal Reserve,
President Trump reportedly planning to
start his final round of interviews for
the Fed chair in the coming days. The
front runner widely believed to be
National Economic Council Director Kevin
Hasset, who said there's quote plenty of
room to cut. Joining us now is someone
who disagrees with that statement,
Lindseay Pa of Stiffel. Lindsay, you've
been really vocal on the fact that you
do think that inflation is very much a
pre-minent concern and is being
underplayed by this particular Fed. How
much do you expect that to come to bite
the Fed when it comes to really yields,
which is what we're seeing this morning?
>> Well, I I think the Fed is well aware of
the fact that inflation remains a very
sizable problem. As we see, the majority
of Fed officials have come out and
spoken against or at least questioned
the need for further rate cuts. So,
there's a very clear divide among Fed
officials right now. some focused on the
employment component, but still as I
mentioned a majority concerned that we
did not do enough the first time around
to reinstate price stability and now
that it becomes even more of a challenge
for the Fed to get us back to 2% having
left prices well above that target level
for so many years now. Where is the
inflationary pressure coming from given
the fact that people have seen rent
prices actually come down not just
disinflation but outright deflation and
a couple of rent metrics and we are
seeing pretty contained price increases
certainly during the holiday season even
on consumer goods. So what's going to
drive this? Well, there still is some
improvement. We have seen some
improvement as you mentioned in these
pockets. But when we look at the cost of
services, this is still going up
consistently over 3/10en on an average
monthly basis. So that's continuing to
fuel these overall annual inflation
numbers up near 3%. Remember it was
never about getting us down from eight
to six to four close to 2% but back to
2% on a sustained level. And the Fed
failed as I mentioned to re really bring
us to that sufficiently restrictive
level the first time around stopping
short at 5 and a half. And so now the
Fed continues to contend with above
trend price pressures.
>> Does this get worse when the president
gets his pick for the Fed chair?
I think the Fed is going to have more of
a lean to the dovish side. There may be
more of an inclination to air on the
side of additional rate cuts as opposed
to holding steady, moving to the
sideline, waiting for the data depending
on who takes the lead at the Fed. But
remember, all of these members are
progrowth, promarket economists. They're
looking to support the economy. They're
looking to meet the Fed's dual mandate
and they will base policy appropriately
to achieve that legally mandated goal.
>> When you look at potentially inflation
next year, where is that coming from? Is
that coming from like almost a
self-induced crisis in Washington
because the one big beautiful bill and
maybe these $2,000 dividend checks?
>> Well, so this is one of the biggest
concerns right now. We're looking at
inflation and we're saying, okay,
there's not necessarily a tremendous
amount of upside momentum that we're
concerned about. But as we turn the
calendar page, if we see a stronger
growth profile than expected right now,
according to the Atlanta Fed, we could
see Q3 GDP up over three and a half
percent, much stronger than what the Fed
had anticipated. We're still seeing a
very spendy, solid consumer as we go
into this holiday shopping season. And
my biggest concern is businesses drawing
down inventories, eating into profit
margins. If they begin to pass through
more of these tariff related or other
policy related costs onto the end
consumer, any one or a combination of
those factors is going to drive
inflation higher. So we can't get
ourselves in a position where the Fed
eases dramatically and then quickly we
have to reverse course because inflation
is taking off up near 4% or beyond. I
just feel this but but but coming in all
these people who are listening to this
saying but that GDP number was re really
driven by data center investment and
what we're seeing right now potentially
next year is greater efficiency greater
productivity that could fuel both growth
but also a disinflation
disinflation on the AI side absolutely
increasing productivity increasing
efficiencies as you mentioned but
there's also an inflationary component
too driving demand higher for these AI
services as well as this sizable energy
component driving higher demand for uh
data centers. So, it's not necessarily a
clear-cut argument that AI is going to
or or other technologies are going to
drive inflation down. There still are a
lot of question marks and if you factor
in tariffs, if you factor in consumer
and and growth prospects, I think the
risk still remains to the upside.
Where's the political risk here in the
case that you just made? You talk about
how it can be inflationary and then you
think, okay, energy costs and we are
going to be speaking with the Chevron
CEO Mike Worth later on. It should be a
great moment for energy costs at least
from the producer side because you
should see them going up because of how
much energy is in demand.
>> Well, we have seen energy go up over 40%
in just the last 5 years.
>> But we haven't seen oil prices go up.
And this is sort of the question of at
what point can you factor in government
interference in trying to skew prices to
the downside because of some of the
political concerns leaving a sort of
subdued inflation even if the supply
demand dynamic might otherwise signify
something else. Well, there will be
pressure on the administration to step
in. As we know, the fastest way to
derail the American consumer is
sustained heightened energy prices, and
that will show up in the polls, via the
the midterms or or other. And so, there
will be a lot of pressure on the
administration to step in, not
necessarily with a long-term solution,
but certainly with some short-term
reprieve.
>> Well, that's with electricity. Is it
balanced out with the fact that the
president last night was talking about
gasoline $1.99? So then I looked and
actually there is a gas station in
Oklahoma that has a gallon for $1.99 in
car in Colorado for $169. The gas buddy
has everyone mapped out and I said,
"Wow, they really are that low below $2
a gallon." But the issue people have at
home is electricity prices,
>> right? And
>> do they negate each other?
>> For the household balance sheet, the
average consumer will look at where
they're allocating those funds, be that
to the gasoline tank or be that to the
household energy bill. And so if one is
is improving and the other isn't, we're
still going to feel that pressure as as
normal consumers, normal spenders.
>> Lindsey Pa, it is great to see you in
studio here. Thank you so much for being
here and happy holidays.
>> Happy holidays.
>> Lindsey Pa of Stiffl on the Fed debate
later today. Right now, let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere this
morning. Here is your Bloomer brief with
Yahan. Yah.
>> Hi, Lisa. Money manager Mario Gabelli
saying it's quote highly likely he will
tender his client's Warner Brothers
shares to Paramounts in an effort to
spark a bidding war. The media investor
signaling he favors Paramount's deal,
but saying it will have to increase its
$30 a share bid and Netflix will likely
still counter. Meanwhile, JP Morgan
announcing $ 105 billion in expected
spending next year, higher than the top
estimate from analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Consumer and community bank
is a big driver of the expense growth
due to higher compensation for advisers,
product marketing, building branches,
and investing in AI.
And the US is proposing that foreign
visitors provide their social media
history over the last 5 years to enter
the country. It would apply to travelers
from about 40 countries who can stay in
the US for up to 90 days without a visa.
The proposal was given a 60-day notice.
That's your Bloomberg brief. Lisa, thank
you so much. Yhara, up next, a tech
paradigm shift.
>> The spend has been enormous and to some
degree, some of these companies don't
have the revenue to back up that spend.
It's a paradigm shift between companies
that were all cash generative to
companies that are now using that cash,
companies that were asset light to all
of a sudden having assets. Tony
Rodriguez of New joins us next to talk
about in part the fixed income side of
this story. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance. Good morning.
It seems like in Washington DC, people
are waking up and realizing they're
going to have to come out, message a Fed
rate cut, meaning 175 basis points of
rate cuts since September, and then
giving guidance at a time where there is
none. Economically right now we're
looking at S&P NASDAQ and Russell 2000
futures all lower ahead of the open led
by NASDAQ tech futures down about a
quarter of a percent similar move for
the Russell 2000 S&P lower by about a
tenth. It really has to do with the bond
space, especially ahead of this Fed
meeting. Twos, tens, and 30s. The long
end of the yield curve, not just here in
the United States, but globally, has
been rising substantially. As Torston
Slack was saying of Apollo, a fixed
income mystery. 30-year yields up about
a basis point 4.82%
ahead of an auction later today. $22
billion of notes and 10ear yields
hovering around that 4.2% after climbing
to the highest levels going back to the
end of September. globally the highest
10-year bond yield globally since 2009.
Under surveillance this morning, this
has been the focus for tech, the tech
paradigm shift in debt.
The spend has been enormous and to some
degree, some of these companies don't
have the revenue to back up that spend.
Some of the companies are using their
balance sheets. Some of them are going
to be taking out debt. This is going to
be a big switch. It's a paradigm shift
between companies that were all cash
generative to companies that are now
using that cash, companies that were
asset light to all of a sudden having
assets. Here's the latest as people
looking ahead to the Fed meeting to
really understand exactly how much more
room some of these tech companies have
to issue. Is it because there is an
accommodative backdrop in credit markets
uh really ameliated by the easing of Fed
rates? Right now, we are so grateful to
have Tony Rodriguez, head of fixed
income strategy at New Here with us in
studio. We're going to get to the tech
space and just what exactly we can
expect with issuance and what this
means, but I want to start on the Fed
and how much it's fueling some of this
risk-taking appetite. How much do you
think that the 175 basis points of cuts
that are expected after today's meeting
since September have really eased
financial conditions in a way that's
underappreciated?
>> Well, I definitely think they have eased
financial conditions. We see that across
all markets, whether you talk about
commodities, equities, and certainly the
credit markets from high grade to high
yield. So the new issue spigot is wide
open. We've seen over one and a half
trillion of new issuments in investment
grade spaces here. So yes, financial
conditions are easy. That is certainly
prompting some of the borrowing. But
when we talk about the specific kind of
boost we've seen from hyperscalers and
AI related investment, we think that's a
little bit more just secular in nature.
We're going to see that over the next
people are talking about three trillion
worth of capex over the next three
years. half of which probably comes to
the public debt and private debt
markets. So that is not really kind of
Fed induced in any way. That is really
structural and secular in our minds.
>> How much is a secular wave of issuance
really feed into this rise in yields
that we're seeing globally? How much is
the idea that there just is a glut of
bond sales coming down the pike as the
financial world has to suddenly finance
the physical world in a way it hasn't
for so many years? Yeah, the technical
supply pressures are large both in
credit markets because of hyperscalers
but also in sovereign markets because of
the high debt levels that we see really
across the globe. So the kind of
sovereign story is one of really steeper
curves, long end suffers. So we're
seeing that in the US, but we're really
seeing it globally as well. So those
fiscal pressures, there really is far as
the I can see no relief for that. When
we talk about the credit markets, what
we're seeing there is the technical
pressure is hitting high quality
technology and the long end. That's
really where the concentration has been
of supply coming from, you know, the
MAG7 type hyperscalers.
>> So, parlay this into the question that
we've been asking all morning, which is
why are sovereign bond yields rising so
much on the long end while they seem
relatively pegged on the front end? Is
it because of the supply issue? Is it
because of some of the deficit concerns?
or is it something else entirely?
>> I think it's around the deficit concerns
primarily, but we've also seen some
stronger growth numbers over the last
couple week to 10 days. You know, you
think about the German data where a lot
of people thought Germany is really kind
of the one of the weak sisters in Europe
saw some strong data. So, a little bit
better kind of data on the growth side.
But the fiscal concerns whether it's
because of defense spending whether it's
because of you know fiscal spending in
the US which is beyond strategic and
defense that I think is really pressure
in the long end term premiums we've seen
rising for the last since September
really that we think that pressure is
going to remain in place. So you're
seeing it in the long end of not only
the US curve but global curves as well.
Is this going to continue in the US if
the Supreme Court decides to strike down
AIPA or this administration does decide
to do these $2,000 checks?
>> I definitely think it's going to
continue. Even if they strike down AIPA,
we still think they'll be able to
implement the vast majority of the
tariff policy through other means. So,
we don't really see much of a change
there.
>> That's good for the deficit, right?
>> It Well, we think it's okay for the
deficit. It's not good for the deficit.
A lot of that's already baked in. So,
you know, really what it's most negative
for is really around the consumer and
higher prices and kind of the stress
we're seeing there, particularly on the
low end of the consumer. So, from a
fiscal side in the US, I mean, right now
we're talking about six to 7% deficits
for the next four to five years. So,
unless there's really something
structurally changing on the spending
side or the revenue side, it's unlikely
we're going to see any relief in the
long end. So, we think long end rates
stay steady. The front of the market
might rally a bit here following the Fed
over the next six months.
>> So, steepening yield curves. What are
you looking for in terms of messaging
from Fed Chair Jay Powell later today?
We were talking earlier about how he is
a lame duck, not a dove or a hawk. How
much does he really have control over
the committee and have the ability to
signal to markets what the path ahead
for the Fed really looks like?
>> Yeah, I mean, I think his ability to do
that is certainly compromised now. lame
duck status along with all the other
pressures that are uh coming down on the
Fed. So, what we think they'll do,
they're going to cut, they'll try to
make it a hawkish cut, but I think it'll
be quite quite subtle really more from
the standpoint of instead of talking
about, you know, additional policy
moves, they'll might talk about the
extent and timing of additional
adjustments. So, trying to kind of
introduce a little bit of just ability
to pause over the next couple of
meetings. We think they'll go one more
time before Powell is done. called maybe
the April meeting. Uh and then we think
that would probably be it under a maybe
a waller or if power were to stay in
power. If you go with a hassid then we
start to think that there's probably a
second half of next year an additional
cut. So we get today's and two more.
Whereas fundamentally the economy is
probably going to be okay with just
today's maybe one more in the middle of
next year and that gets us pretty close
to neutral and maybe a steady state for
a bit from the Fed. So, just taking a
step back, what's your highest
conviction heading into next year if you
do think the economy is in a pretty good
place, but potentially this Fed could
cut more than is economically warranted?
>> Well, we think that uh the best place to
be really is kind of the midquality
level of the credit markets. So, we
expect some weakness in the high quality
areas I mentioned because of excess
supply that's coming. We expect some
weakness in the lowest end because our
growth forecast is for a little bit
below 2%. So that's an okay environment
for growth, but the weakest companies
might have a little stress. So kind of
midquality credit in a diversified
fashion. To us, that's a sweet spot.
Earn the carry. You're not going to get
a big tailwind from lower rates, but
we're not expecting a bit a big spike in
rates either.
>> Just real quick here, if the Fed does
indicate that it's going to cut rates
substantially more in the upcoming year,
do you expect the long end rate to rise
substantially more than we have seen
already? I think it would rise beyond
our current. We think maybe four and
three/4ers for the third year, let's say
4% for the 10 year. We could see 50
basis points higher than that if you had
significant additional cuts that are
clearly not motivated by fundamental
economics.
>> Tony Rodriguez, thank you so much for
being with us this morning. Tony
Rodriguez of New as we head toward that
Fed meeting and frankly as we head
toward a question around one of the more
indebted of the tech space, Oracle
reporting earnings after the bell and a
question of supply. It's not just the uh
government supply. It's also very much
the corporate supply that we've seen
from some of these AI leaders.
>> Tony said it, $3 trillion. It's
unbelievable when it comes to how much
money these tech companies are tapping
in the debt space to finance this entire
AI buildout trade that a lot of people
still have a tremendous amount of
questions and concerns about.
>> Right now, what you're seeing in markets
is a little bit of softness ahead of
that Fed meeting as well as those Oracle
earnings. And you can see uh those bond
yields on the long end just creeping up.
When we talk about the incredible amount
of buildout in the tech space, you have
to wonder about how that affects the
energy costs. We'll be talking about
that coming up. First, we've got Gargi
Chowdery of Black Rockck. Then Chevron
CEO Mike Worth. Do not miss that.
Tiffany Wilding of PIMCO as we do get
the employment cost index from October.
And Robert Tip of Pym Fixed Income. We
start to look at a Fed cutting rates
into already pretty easy financial
conditions. Right now, what you are
seeing in markets, silver rising to an
all-time high as maybe people look to
precious metals ahead of this meeting.
Right now, this is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
We think the setup is really
constructive into next year for a
broadening in earnings. There's this
element that maybe things could be
better and you have a lot of stimulus
coming.
>> Let's not be complacent and just expect
the same really positive performance
we've seen so far this year.
>> If you start to see any kind of
degradation in earnings, I would be much
less optimistic.
>> The market tends to discount both good
news and bad news fairly quickly.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance on Fed Day with stocks
fluctuating near all-time highs ahead of
earnings from Oracle and that key Fed
rate decision at 2 p.m. Eastern. Traders
expecting central bankers to ease policy
for a third consecutive meeting. But the
path after that increasingly murky and
increasingly underpinning skepticism
that we could see in the bond market.
Actually, what we're seeing today in the
bond market, you've been talking to just
yields continuously rise. A lot of
people have different reasons why. Tony
Rodriguez just talking about deficit
concerns are still an issue in the
United States. A lot of people are
talking about actually this is just a
global phenomenon right now. When you
look to Japan, Australia, Canada, hiking
or hikes priced in. What the Fed has to
do today, I guess everyone can ask JP
pal about why he thinks yields are on
the rise. But he is a lame duck today.
And I think what's going to really
overshadow this is not just the fact
that we had a 43 day government
shutdown. And we don't have the latest
job data as they make this decision, but
what happens next year? We have musical
chairs at the Federal Reserve,
>> especially given the fact that right now
we're in a dated desert. We haven't been
getting economic data. Today, we'll get
at 8:30 a.m. Eastern some employment
cost index that is dated, but might give
us a sense of a labor market that has
been absolutely a mystery. What we are
expecting is also a statement of
economic projections. How does this
Federal Reserve give an economic
projection given the fact that it really
is a huge debate about the momentum in
the economy and frankly even what has
happened over the past couple of months?
>> Well, the problem is to this data
desert. We don't exactly have a clear
picture of what happened. Jobs and
retail sales numbers for October and
November have yet to be released. The
Fed is meeting today. Yet, they get the
jobs report next week. So potentially
next week they're either going to give
themselves a pat on the back and said
and said yes we made the right decision
or they're going to but some of them
might walk out of there and think oh
maybe we should have had on pause have
cut gone for a deeper cut um because
right now we heard from Nila Richardson
there are green shoots when it comes to
the labor market when you think of um
there are some hiring we saw that in
Jolts yesterday but then she talked
about concerns and small businesses.
>> Yeah. So how useful will the dot plot
be? It always is incredibly useful, of
course, but this time uh how how useful
will it be? The expectation is for one
rate cut next year and one rate cut the
following year in that dot plot. Again,
do you just throw it all out the window?
Right now, the state of play that you're
seeing in markets is a little bit of
softness in the equity space. Futures
lower by about a tenth of a percent on
the S&P. A bigger decline in the tech
area. You are seeing a pretty flat
market when it comes to FX, but the
yield space, as Amory was mentioning,
10-year yields up about a basis point
had been up more, but fluctuating around
that 420 level. Coming up this hour,
Gargy Chowy of Black Rockck with stocks
wavering. Chevron CEO Mike Worth as
gasoline and oil prices are trending
lower and Tiffany Wilding of Pimco
expecting a more hawkish Fed in 2026. We
begin this hour with stocks just
slightly lower as tra traders await the
latest interest rate decision by the
Federal Reserve. Garji Chowy of Black
Rockck joins us now. Gargi would love to
be a fly on the wall in the Fed's
meeting today. Thank you so much for
being here. Why do you think this is
going to be such an exciting meeting
down in Washington DC? Absolutely. Thank
you both for having me. And as I was
preparing for this, I was looking at the
SEP dot plot. And to your point, maybe
you take it with a grain of salt, maybe
you throw it right out, but it does give
us some information. And one of the
things that I was looking at is the
estimates for neutral from September.
And if you remember that, you'll notice
that at least four or five of the uh of
the members had already at that point
said that we were near the neutral level
which we are at today. And then
obviously with the 25 basis points cuts
that are going to come many will have
already thought that that was not
needed. So uh whether or not there's
going to be as many dissents as many
expect. I don't know. Personnel is
policy. I think Chair Powell will
probably do a great job in you know
building consensus. He's done that many
times. But the discussions will be
fabulous and I think we learn a lot from
the minutes in six weeks.
>> I love the generating consensus. I
thought you were just saying hurting
cats because that's what it always feels
like. But you know Al Torren Slock puts
out a note this morning saying a mystery
in fixed income and that really the key
question as we've been talking about
extensively. Why are long-term rates
rising so much if the Fed might be
poised to really cut rates more than
even might be warranted as people worry
or think about there could be
potentially a political motivation to
lower rates. Why are long-term yields
rising globally to the extent they are?
>> Yeah. So I think the last part of your
sentence globally is important. So this
isn't a US- ccentric matter. It is
rising globally. I think there are a few
concerns there. Number one, I think that
a person that was here before me spoke
about spoke about just generally
concerns around fiscal discipline. That
is something that hasn't gone away. We
were thinking about it 6 months ago.
We're thinking about it now. I would
question why we had rallied so much. Why
were we below 4% not that long ago?
Especially when we didn't have too much
data. Now I think having sort of sold
off back to this 420 level with some
expectations of hawkishness almost
everybody that you speak to expects this
meeting to be hawkish and it's hard to
imagine that chair powell can be
doubbish given all of the foregone
conclusion language that he had used in
the last meeting. So I think some of
that is also just expecting the you know
pre-pricing the hawkishness. What I
think we should all focus on is the
opportunity that this backup in yields
is creating in a world where so many
other parts of the market if you look at
you know just broad indices have rallied
so much but bond markets especially that
belly of the curve creating this
opportunity for income I think it's
pretty fantastic. So what do you like
when it looks at opportunity? Yeah. So,
a couple of things. Uh, number one,
within the fixed income market, we're
telling investors that the backdrop of
solid growth with a Fed that's either po
either going to pause or, you know,
maybe cut one more time in the beginning
of next year. Um, that creates a
wonderful opportunity to clip coupon.
But really, you don't want to take too
much duration because of the fiscal
concerns that we were talking about. to
really keep it maybe out to the 10-year
point, belly of the curve. Focus on
income, focus on allin yields that are
available in the fixed income markets
within the equity space, the core of
your portfolio needs to be in large cap.
And that's because we think that even
though small caps have rallied so much,
it's not going to be sustainable in a
higher rate regime. So large caps AI are
a focus and then a lot of diversifiers
around it because obviously we as we've
seen there's uh a lot of pressure to
pull back when u you know news arises
and we might see that today.
>> So are you a believer in the rotation
trade or not yet
>> a rotation trade into small midcap?
>> No. So, I actually think I'm quite in
the opposite camp where I think that the
small cap rally that we've seen in the
all-time highs has gone a little too
far. In fact, what we think is we should
rotate back into the large cap space,
which should be the core of your equity
portfolio with some allocations to other
themes such as cyclicals, especially in
financial space. We think dividends as a
source of income can be really powerful
here. But really keeping large cap at
the core and the belly of the curve in
fixed income as your fixed income
allocation with um other diversifiers
like gold with uh liquid alternatives
>> which is the reason why I think a lot of
people have been going into gold and it
has rallied some 7% since the last Fed
meeting. How does tech play into this
large cap emphasis that you're putting
out there? We're going to get Oracle
earnings after the bell. An increasing
focus on the connection between big tech
and the debt markets given the financing
needs of some of these companies. How
much do you need that to perform? The
idea that these companies can continue
to get the financing at relatively
attractive pricing in order to keep
building out and generating the optimism
that they have in 2025.
>> Absolutely. And I think one of the
things that has changed this month over
maybe 3 months ago is new deals being
announced is not viewed as a positive
thing anymore. But where they're coming
from is important. So if you have these
large tech companies that are actually
really profitable, have a lot of free
cash flow, at the same time have very
little net net debt, we all know that
chances are likely very high that the
companies will be able to finance this
appropriately. And I think maybe
there'll be pullback in the credit
market, but over the long run at these
level of all-in yields, the supply will
likely be absorbed. But who's doing it
matters. to the free cash flow
generating low net debt high ebida
companies that are then coming into the
credit markets I think that goes okay
but obviously when it comes from other
parts where there isn't that free cash
flow associated with the names I think
that could for be a little bit trickier
but one of the things that we've seen
over and over in 2025 this being one of
the years that we've seen a record
amount of fixed income flows is
investors want multi- sector fixed
income in their portfolio. They want
that income. So, every time you have
these massive uh issuance weeks, you
actually do see a lot of demand come
into fixed income markets.
>> Let's say you were down in Washington DC
today. What would be the one question
that you would have to Fed Chair Jay
Powell in the press conference? If you
were there, Gargi Chowdery in the front
row. What would you thought about this?
I would love to be there. Um shout out
to Mike McKe. But I I I think I'd ask
Chair Powell what he would need to see
in the deluge of data that we're going
to get in the next month or so to decide
about uh what drives Mark rates in
January and March. Gari, wonderful to
see you. Thank you so much for being
with us today. Gargy Chowy of Black
Rockck here in studio as we do countdown
to that Fed decision. Right now, let's
get you an update on stories elsewhere.
Here is your Bloomberg brief with Yahira
on it. Yahihira.
>> Hi Lisa. President Donald Trump
suggesting he could seek to ask Federal
Reserve governors appointed by President
Joe Biden if their commissions were
signed by autopen. Trump asked Treasury
Secretary Scott Bessen to investigate
the issue. Autopens have been used in
multiple presidencies tracing back to
the 1940s. Meanwhile, lawmakers in
Brazil have approved a bill that could
lower former President Jaier Bossaro's
jail time. If it passes the Senate, the
legislation would curb prison sentences
for Brazilians convicted of crimes
linked to the insurrection attempt after
Bolssonaro's loss. Bolsonaro's sentence
could go from 27 years to 20 years and 9
months. And money manager Mario Gabelli
saying it's quote highly likely he will
tender his client's Warner Brothers
shares to Paramount. The media investor
signaling he favors Paramount's deal,
but saying it will have to increase its
$30 a share bid. in Netflix will still
likely counter. The bidding war is
expected to last well into 2026. That's
your Bloomberg brief, Lisa. I'm getting
Jerry McGuire feelings. Show me the
money from all the shareholders. Up
next, the morning calls. Plus, Chevron
CEO Mike Worth his gas prices have
dipped below $3 a gallon for the first
time since 2021. Is it still drill baby
drill? That's next. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
Seeing a bit of softness ahead of that
Fed meeting. Good morning. Just a little
bit of a dip in futures this morning. It
could all change. moving back, clawing
back from some of the earlier losses.
Quiet in the FX space. 10-year yields
higher by a basis point 420 continuing
that sell off in silver prices at
all-time highs. We haven't been citing
oil prices and the reason is because
they have been staying in the same place
fluctuating uh from gains and losses,
but really around that $50 to $60 a
barrel with a lot of questions around
supply, not just the demand side. Time
now for the morning calls. First up,
HSBC raising its price target on Eli Liy
to $1,70, calling it positioned to
outperform next year, especially if AI
panic kicks in. Next up, City lowering
its target on Cracker Barrel to $20,
citing declining traffic. Not exactly
the logo incident, down 3.1% in
pre-market trading. And finally, Morgan
Stanley Morgan Stanley raising its
target on Exxon Mobile to $137 a share,
highlighting increasing free cash flow.
those shares up by 3/10en of a percent.
Let's stick with the energy space.
President Donald Trump touting lower
prices.
>> We're down lower than we've been in 7
years in gasoline prices and oil prices,
not just the three states that I talk
about with 199 a gallon. How would you
like to have 199, you know, that's
that's the equivalent of a very major
tax cut. You know, when you get the
energy prices down,
>> the national average for gas falling
below $3 a gallon for the first time
since 2021. Mike Worth, the CEO of
Chevron joins us now for an exclusive
interview. I am so glad that we're
getting to speak with you, Mike. Thank
you so much for being here with us.
>> You're welcome, Lisa.
>> So, let's start about that. 199 a gallon
might be great for a lot of people in
terms of filling up their gas tanks. a
real question around drill baby drill
and how much you're incentivized to
increase production given the lower cost
of oil.
>> Well, you know, we make our investment
plans on a long-term basis. We look at
supply and demand well out into the
future. And so the the the price of uh
oil today can affect short-term
financial performance of the company,
but it really doesn't play as much into
some of the longer term investment plans
uh as we we look down the road, not
really out the window as we we decide
what the the capital program looks like.
>> But how do you reconcile the two?
Because you're doing a lot of
exploration internationally and to
Lisa's point, prices are low and
potentially are going to even go lower.
Well, exploration uh is a long cycle
business. The we just brought a project
online in uh the the Gulf of America
last year where the discovery was made
20 years prior. And so the the timeline
between when you actually make a
discovery uh when you appraise that and
you ultimately develop it and bring it
to market can be years or even decades.
And so we really have to uh take that
long view on on the business. And uh you
know in the short term uh we'll keep
cost tight. We've guided to, you know,
industryleading free cash flow over the
next few years as we bring cost down,
capital spending down, uh, increase the
the synergies on the HS transaction. Uh,
so we're going to deliver strong
financial performance through the cycle
>> based on what the IEA has said,
recalibrated where they see oil demand
growing. It was 2030, now it's 2050.
OPEC says they had a rendevous with
reality seeing that the world needs a
lot more of this, a lot more fossil
fuels. If outlook is so strong, should
Chevron, should all of these big oil
companies should do they increasing more
of that investment?
>> Well, uh on the IEA, even a bloke broken
clock is right twice a day. So, they uh
have finally acknowledged what we've
long known, which is that the world will
continue using oil and gas for many
decades into the future. Uh we are uh in
that long cycle business and uh you know
the the capital spending uh has become
more efficient in our industry. A decade
ago uh we were spending money on big
projects. There was a lot of growth
going on in shale at a relatively high
cost structure and the entire industry
has found ways to standardize designs,
simplify projects and actually get more
for every capital dollar that we spend.
So so the size of our capital spending
doesn't necessarily uh correlate to the
the growth the way that it would have in
years gone by.
>> When it comes to expansion, the US
government is backing this plan Iraq has
to transfer Luke oil stakes to an
American company. So, it's really only
you or Exxon. How are those negotiations
going?
>> Well, I can't comment on uh commercial
negotiations. What I will say is we've
got a wellestablished reputation as a
good partner uh as a world-class
operator in international locations. Uh
we're sought out as a partner in
countries around the world. We've got a
long history working in the Middle East
and uh we put a real premium on
partnership and uh that goes to every
country we work with and every company
we work with.
>> Can you talk about those assets though?
Do you think those would be good assets
to the Chevron portfolio?
>> Well, we always look to strengthen our
portfolio. Uh Iraq is a country that's
blessed with uh very substantial uh
petroleum resources and some of the
largest fields in the world. And so
those are the kinds of things that we
always look at. You've been talking
about the capital profile in investments
and how it's become a lot more efficient
to make the same kinds of uh sort of
investments and and frankly the same
kind of output. Where is this efficiency
coming from? Is it coming from
artificial intelligence? Is it becoming
is it coming from just better technology
and getting oil and gas out of the
ground?
>> Yeah. So, uh in shale for instance,
which is something the US has been a
world leader in, uh a decade ago break
evens were 70 or $80 a barrel. today
they're they're not even half of that as
we found ways to drill longer laterals
to optimize the spacing of wells to
complete wells uh at lower cost with
with greater production coming out of
them. So it's a series of things in the
deep water uh we've simplified and
standardized designs and what used to
take um you know $30 a barrel or more in
terms of uh cost of capital to go into a
project now has been been cut in half.
And so uh it's not driven by AI yet. Uh
I do think over time we're going to see
uh technologies like that continue this
path that we're on.
>> We're going to get to that in just a
second. If that's the case, if you can
get more even at a break even cost
that's a lot lower. Why has the rig
count gone down so much? Why aren't
there more rigs coming online given the
capacity here in the United States?
>> Because we can we can drill more feet
per day with a rig today than we could
in the past. And so we rig count is not
nearly as interesting a metric as how
many feet a day you can drill, how many
wells you can complete in a period of
time. And so we're getting more work
done out of fewer pieces of equipment
today.
>> You talk about how AI isn't delivering
those efficiencies yet. The indication
being that maybe down the road it might
be the case. Where specifically are you
thinking and and I'm saying at a time
when Chevron's cutting staff, so are
other people. Is this a headcount issue?
Is this something else? How are you
seeing it being deployed?
>> Well, we're in I think we're still in
the very early days of applying AI at
scale in our industry. Uh, one of the
things that's undeniable about AI is it
needs lots of data. A company like ours
has as much data as just about any
company in the world. And so we've got
decades and decades of geological data,
seismic data, operating data, all of
which can be used to feed these models
to optimize operations, uh to improve
our exploration success, uh to uh
squeeze more production out of existing
assets. And so uh we see huge
opportunities uh to run our business
with smarter technology, get better
decisions made faster. Um, and so
there's a there's certainly a cost
dimension to this, but I think the real
opportunity is going to be about the
productivity of our assets and our
business.
>> You announced this project, the first of
its kind to provide natural gas fired
power for data centers. Do you expect to
do more of these projects and what's the
update on this one in West Texas? Well,
certainly the demand for power has been,
you know, talked about now for the last
year or so as the constraint in the
growth of of AI data centers uh and the
ambition for data centers at a scale
we've never seen before is uh has become
a common place. U the reality is uh we
need largecale power. What we're working
on is um off-the-g grid power because
it's also becoming an issue with
electricity prices and we're seeing this
show up in in consumer sentiment in
elections. Uh our our approach is to
develop um gigawatt scale uh power
generation not through the grid but
dedicated to data centers. Uh we've got
a project in a couple of sites actually
we're working on in West Texas uh where
we've got a lot of natural gas. We've
got large uh gas turbines, the largest
in the world being delivered starting
next year and uh we're deep into
discussions with multiple customers that
would like to site data centers uh to
use this power.
>> You're at the center of a lot of
politically very important
conversations, not just when it comes to
AI, not just when it comes to lucil
assets, also Venezuela, the only
American company left. Can you give us
an update on either conversations with
the administration, your team on the
ground? What is the future of Chevron in
this country? As the president sense,
maybe he's going to send troops there.
>> Yeah, I I I I don't know what the
president's intentions are. Um we've
been in Venezuela for for the last 100
years. Uh our presence there we believe
is uh important for the local economy,
the regional economy, the people of
Venezuela. Uh the Venezuelan oil is
sought after by US refiners and we
operate there in full compliance with
all US law and sanctions. We're in
discussions with the administration to
ensure that we stay in compliance that
they understand uh the value that our
presence uh brings to America and uh and
so you know that's
>> and you plan on being there for the long
term.
>> Venezuela actually has more oil and gas
resource than Saudi Arabia. Uh it's
right here in our hemisphere very close
to the Gulf Coast refining complex and
uh we've been there through ups and
downs and like many places in the world
uh we have to take a long view on our
presence in countries like this.
>> You talked about succession yesterday at
this conference. How are you thinking
about that as you talk to the board? Is
there something you want to get done
before you hand over the reigns?
>> Well, succession discussions begin on
day one. I think for most CEOs it's it's
part of a board's responsibility to be
thinking about the next generation of
leadership. Um I have a long list of
things u some of which have been
accomplished. I mentioned the Hest
transaction which was a big one for us
earlier this year. Uh we have laid out a
plan for the next several years to
investors last month that grows free
cash flow that drives a significant
return of cash to shareholders. All of
those are things that I want to make
progress on. Uh but when the time is
right for someone to follow me in this
job, the board will make that
determination and um and I will uh
happily um hand over to
>> Will you go right for land man?
>> Just 30 seconds left. Do you think that
in 10 years gas or oil is going to be
more valuable?
>> Well, on an energy content basis, um you
know, oil's got about six times more
energy content per unit of volume than
gas does. And so um you know they trade
in uh sympathy with one another because
energy is somewhat funible. Um I think
both of those commodities are going to
be essential to the global economy. I
think demand for both of those will be
much higher than it is today and I think
you're going to see good companies in
our industry uh still producing more of
that and doing it in a way that keeps
costs very affordable for the economy.
>> Mike Worth, wonderful to see you. Thank
you so much for being with us here this
morning. Mike Worth the CEO of Chevron
as we look to the question around
powering AI coming up. Plus, Tiffany
Wilding, Evan Pimco, and Robert Tip of
Pym Fixed Income with the latest Fed
interest rate decision on deck. This is
Blue Brook Surveillance.
Stocks dipping just a little bit ahead
of that Fed meeting as people wonder
exactly how much the Fed can come out
with any kind of signal, let alone a
doubbish one, given the potential change
in leadership. S&P futures though
turning upward as the session grows
older up about a tenth of a percent.
This is a reversal from earlier where
have been down as much as one tenth of a
percent. You can see NASDAQ futures also
essentially flat clawing back about a
quarter of a percent losses. Same kind
of story on the Russell 2000 in the bond
space. Twos 10 and 30s. A real question
here about how much you get that selloff
with yields rising. Right now just
crossing we get the employment cost
index with the latest read on wage
inflation. And Bloomberg's Michael McKe
joins us now with more. Mike, what does
this data from the third quarter tell
us?
>> Well, it tells the Fed that the U labor
market was a little bit looser maybe in
the third quarter because we didn't see
a big rise in wages and salaries. It
comes down from uh what we had seen in
the second quarter. The overall ECI
comes in up 8/10en of a percent. The
forecast was for 9/10 the same as in the
second quarter. Wages and salaries were
up 8/10en of a percent. They were up a
full percentage point in the second
quarter. And benefit costs increased
8/10en of a percent. That was a slight
rise from 7/10en in the second quarter.
A little bit less meaning to it because
we don't have the other labor data like
how many people have jobs or have been
getting jobs, but it does give the Fed a
bit of a read on inflation. And it's not
bad news.
>> Mike, how much are we expecting to sense
at this meeting later today? We're
looking at data like the ECI. We're
looking at Jolt's data where you could
have a choose your own adventure kind of
interpretation and then we could
potentially get even as many as four
descents in both directions uh this
afternoon.
>> Well, it's going to be a very
interesting meeting. Perhaps uh Lisa,
the most interesting meeting that we
have had in years and years. Markets are
pricing of course the idea of a hawkish
25 basis point cut with those multiple
descents expected on both sides. Some
thinking we should cut more, some
thinking they shouldn't cut at all. uh
we'll get the dot drama of uh who thinks
or how many think they're going to cut
how many times in 2026 and their
unemployment and inflation outlooks for
the coming year. But as you mentioned,
it's the dissents that will get a lot of
attention both in the dot plot because
how many people thought they perhaps
shouldn't have cut rates at this
meeting? We haven't had three descents
since 2019. We haven't had four since
October of 1992. Now, if you want to go
beyond that, five descents, uh, wouldn't
that be fun? Uh, 1983 was the last time
we saw it. We haven't had three
governors descent since June of 1988, so
we'll see what Bowman and Waller uh, and
Myron do. If they all descent, then that
breaks somewhat uh, continuing record.
Uh so we will be watching closely to see
uh what they do and we'll have all that
for you at 2 pm and 2:30 with the
chairman's news conference.
>> Yeah, the Fed party like it's 1988.
Michael McKe, thank you so much. Let's
stick with the Fed. Tiffany Wilding of
Pimco writing, "We expect the Fed to
deliver another 25 basis point cut while
at the same time signaling that it's
likely to start 2026 with rates back on
hold." Tiffany joins us now. Tiffany,
great to have you. Thank you so much for
being with us. So, you think a hawkish
cut is what's on deck later today?
>> Yeah. Um, absolutely. And thanks for
having me. Yeah. So, we we ultimately
think they will cut at this meeting, but
the um the all of the other information
that we're going to get will will
probably have a hawkish shift. So, we
think there's a pretty good chance that
the 2026 median dot shifts up from
implying uh an additional cut in 2026 to
being on hold. We also think chair pal
will um you know we'll be um having to
um explain at the press conference that
you know this is the um the last cut for
a little while. We ultimately think the
Fed is is likely to be on hold
throughout his term and you could also
see some hawka shifts in the statement
you know really um really sort of
underscoring that additional cuts from
here will be dependent on downside risks
that we've been talking about in the
labor market actually being realized.
How much does it matter if he indicates
that he is going to hold rates tight
given the fact that he's probably not
going to be on the Fed after the first
couple of months of next year? In other
words, is he just a lame duck or does he
have more clout on the committee than
some people are giving credence to?
>> Well, I mean ultimately, you know, he
has not signaled that he's going to step
down. So, um there's a very good chance
although, you know, the the precedent
has been that that chairs when they um
their chair term ends, they do
ultimately step down from um their their
governor roles as well. But, but it does
seem like there's more question around
if Pal will do that. If he does stay on,
then he he will have a say. Um he'll
continue to be a voting member on the
FOMC as as long as he's there, you know.
Now, um you know, ultimately the markets
have already priced out. Um, I think the
f, you know, the a next additional cut
is is more fully priced into markets in
June, you know, so that markets have
have kind of reflected this idea that
we're probably going to be on hold for
the the remainder of the year.
>> Do you think he hasn't
>> for the remainder of the the his term?
>> Do you think he had he hasn't signaled
yet to your point where whether or not
he's going to step down as a governor,
although it would be very odd if he
didn't leaves the Federal Reserve when
his chairmanship is up. Do you think for
him it really is highly dependent on who
the president picks?
>> Yeah, I mean I you know I um I am I'm
you know pal um it will be uh obviously
it will it will be a little bit
unprecedented for him to stay on. Um you
know I think Michael Bar is another one
that um you know is also a question of
if if they'll uh step down and and we
haven't heard anything from him on this.
Yeah. And I mean, I do think that that
both of of those folks and and and
everyone at the Federal Reserve is is
very committed to, you know, the
independence of the institution. Um, you
know, and I think they're, you know,
their commitment to that, you know,
could drive them to stay a little
longer. But, you know, of course, we'll
have to see.
>> When it comes to Fed independence, the
president yesterday was talking about
how these governors appointed under the
Biden administration were done via the
auto pen. He wants the Treasury
Secretary to look into it. Um, a lot of
people don't think this is going
anywhere because of a lot of legal
challenges. These individuals were
Senate confirmed, but do you think do do
you think at some point the market will
maybe test and this concern about Fed
independence?
Yeah, I mean this has been a a a major
um point of issue and and I think the
fact that we're even talking about it um
you know is is is maybe you know
somewhat concerning um in in terms of of
of the broader market discussion you
know but I think there are several
points next year where um you know that
discussion could can could certainly
come to the forefront. Now, we'll have I
guess the in January, the president will
announce who he is picking for uh the
Myin opening. Um and we think ultimately
that will probably be who he wants as
the next chair. But then after that,
we'll also have uh the Lisa Cook uh case
that is also being heard uh early next
year. And the merits of that case are
are likely to be announced later in the
year, possibly um you know, in June. So
that will be another point um that that
the markets will have to contend with
this question on on how many personnel
how many new governors uh you know
ultimately Trump will have to to put on
the FOMC and um you know there is a
scenario out there where where he has
you know a significant um amount of
governors that that he can appoint you
know which can shift the um the you know
the the view or the bias of the
committee in a a more doubbish way of of
course we'll have to to see what happens
um you know but but it's certainly a
risk Tiffany, it seems like a lot of
people in the markets believe that
actually the Fed does have room to cut a
significant amount more in addition to
the 175 basis points of rate cuts that
we've gotten since September if the Fed
does indicate that they are going to
lower by another 25 basis points today.
Why do you disagree with that given the
fact that we have seen some potential
hiccups in the labor market and real
concerns certainly in sentiment surveys
among consumers?
>> Yeah. Well, I mean, we're we're much
clearer. We're much closer to neutral
now uh than we were, you know, even back
in June, right? With today's rate cut,
we'll be 75 basis points closer. Uh I
think the median FOMC official uh puts
the the neutral interest rate at around
3% right now. So, we're very close to
that. On the other side of that though,
you do still have inflation that's
running above target. Um you know, 3% is
is where we think that it'll end the
year this year. um growth has been much
more resilient than expected in 2025.
You have uh consumption that has been
much more uh resilient than expected in
2025 despite the labor market weakness.
And that growth resilience of 2025 is is
um is is what's the is coming into the
the year where um we're also expected to
get more fiscal easing. So, the one big
beautiful bill act that was passed last
year uh in included some um pretty
decentsized fiscal easing um and
supports that offset the tariffs in the
in the first half of this year. So,
consumers and households will get pretty
big tax refunds, you know. So, so we
think that there's certainly a risk here
that you could see inflation that's a
bit more sticky um and and takes a bit
uh you know is further delayed in in
making progress towards target. the
prudent thing to do in that scenario u
you know is to to continue to wait
because you've already uh cut rates
closer to neutral. Um but but you know
taking a step back from all of that you
know we would agree that there is more
room uh to cut interest rates versus
neutral here. Um you know it's kind of
more just a matter of of time and risk
management in in terms of the Fed
outlook.
>> Tiffany Wilding of Pimco, thank you so
much for being with us this morning.
Turning now to bonds. Bond yield
sniffing out something. Global yields
rising to levels not seen since 2009.
Robert Tip, head of global bonds at Pym,
writing, "A disappointment trade is
unfolding across several developed
markets as investors come to grips with
central bank rate cutting cycles that
may be ending soon." Robert joins us
now. Robert, thank you so much for being
with us. What exactly do you think is
behind what is going on in long bonds
globally, not just here in the United
States?
>> Right. Well, you know, there's quite a
bit of focus uh among bond market
investors on the JGB market, right?
Japan after achieving their uh inflation
uh more than achieving their inflation
target now for some time has been hiking
interest rates and you've had a
tremendous bare steepening of their
curve with their yields pushing up and
into European bond yield levels. And so
the bottom of the envelope of what
people saw as reasonable DM yields and
the lower end uh in extremists has been
pushed up. At the same time, central
bank easing cycles have ended and raised
the question of is the next move a hike.
And this has happened in a number of
places around the world, whether you're
looking at Europe, whether you're
looking at Australia, New Zealand,
Canada, where all of a sudden after
these eases, you get uh a delayed
reaction in the economy and all of a
sudden the markets have to think about,
wow, where should the tenure be if the
next move is going to be a hike? And so
I think that's been an element in the
recent selloff in treasuries. Do you
think, Robert, that there is anything
that the Federal Reserve can do to lower
10-year yields if this is a global
phenomenon, even with the use of balance
sheet, even with potentially an
additional 100 basis points of rate cuts
over the next 16 months?
>> Right. Well, I think that the Fed wants
to have a balanced outcome here. They
want to have inflation come down to
target and they want the economy to keep
expanding. And when you look at what the
Fed's guidance has been for the last two
years, it's been that a couple years
out, they were going to get towards a 3%
Fed funds rate. And as they did that,
the yield curve would achieve a slope of
about 100 basis points and the 10ear
would be around 4%. And honestly, I
don't think there's going to be a lot of
change from that. um in your uh coverage
of the ECI
here and we've seen this in the uh other
BLS statistics as well. Wage growth is
very moderate. That is an ultimate
driver of service inflation. So there is
reason for the Fed to look at the slowly
rising unemployment rate, see that
building slack, have some optimism that
inflation is not going to spiral out of
control and ease. And I think one of the
things that could curtail or not
depending on how things go today uh some
of this increase in rates is where we
see the dot go for next year. Uh right
now there's a a 3.6 uh and done uh kind
of uh cluster of dots there for next
year. And I think you're going to see
that tick down. I think some of the
longer term dots you may see move up
towards that level. But I think uh
creating some optimism that rates are
still headed down towards 3% in a soft
landing uh successful scenario may help
to cap yields here.
>> If you do get a really doubbish Fed that
comes out, even Fed chair Jay Powell
indicates that there is more rate
cutting ahead and you do see that
long-term dot not move up but actually
stay lower and continue to go down. Does
that make you more bearish on long-term
bonds? Does that make you concerned
about the investment prospect longer
term?
>> Yeah. Well, I think the front end of the
curve is an important anchor and if you
get a massive drop in the front end of
the curve, it's going to be very
difficult for the $8 trillion in money
funds to sit there earning much less
than treasuries and uh say that they're
going to have a buyer strike. So, I
don't know that that would push yields
up. But in terms of a doubbish outlook
for today, I think one of the things
that uh the potential nominee u has
indicated is forward guidance is kind of
dead. You know, once you're you're not
at zero and you know you're going to be
there for 5 years, you're up, you're at
3.9%. You can't tell people what you're
going to do. So, I think they're going
to leave it open-ended today. Um but the
fact of the matter is the economy is
decelerating. uh they have optimism that
inflation is decelerating and I think
that you know somewhere within you know
a quarter point of where we are here
you're going to see a cresting of yields
on that kind of uh optimism
>> Robert Tip of Py thank you so much for
being with us this morning ahead of the
Fed right now let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning here is
your bloomberg brief with Yhierra an
antihira
>> hi Lisa new data from fizer suggesting a
potential change in the future of breast
cancer treatment a study revealing that
adding fizers to kaisa medicine to
initial therapy treatment delayed tumor
progression by over 8 months.
Researchers say the findings support
giving the drug earlier, potentially
prolonging the time until the disease
progresses.
Meanwhile, JP Morgan announcing it
expects to spend $ 105 billion next
year, higher than the top estimate from
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
consumer a community bank is a big
driver of the expense growth due to
higher compensation for advisers,
product marketing, building branches and
investing in AI.
And Oak Tree Capital CF-ounder Howard
Mark says AI has created a terrifying
outlook for employment. He warns that
the zoomed productivity boom from AI
fails to consider how many people will
actually be able to afford the
additional goods produced. Tune in
tomorrow at 8:45 a.m. Eastern for Lisa's
interview with Howard Marks. Dr.
Bloomberg brief. Lisa,
>> thank you so much, Yahara. Up next,
Bridler's Ed Ledllo, excuse me, Ed
Ledllo, breaking down the latest reports
surrounding Deep Seek's usage of Nvidia
chips as we wonder the national security
aspect, the issue between China and the
US and trade relations, and then the
ongoing desire for the likes of Nvidia
and AMD to get a full footprint in the
international chip sales space. From New
York, this is Bloomberg.
We have to step back and understand
something that bond market cycles are
very longlegged
things and and the 40-year bond bull
market ended at the pandemic lows in
2020. If you think about it, it's almost
remarkable that the confluence of the US
being the de premier destination for
capital has actually caused uh spreads
against global bond markets uh to
compress. That was Julian Emanuel of
Evercore ISI on the surge in global
yields ahead of today's Fed rate
decision, making the argument that if
anything, US rates are relatively low
compared to the global bond yield
selloff. And indeed, if you take a look
at bond yields right now, they are below
where they were to start the year at
4.6%.
Right now we're at 4.2%. So yes, still
it is up from the recent lows, but down
from the start of the year across the
board, twos, tens, and 30s. You are
seeing a little bit of a sell-off, but
nothing very dramatic. Counting down to
the opening bell. Here's a trader diary
for the week ahead. 2 p.m. Eastern, the
FOMC rate decision followed by Fed Chair
Jay Powell's press conference at 2:30.
Plus, earnings from Oracle after the
closing bell. A real question around the
indebtedness of that company. Uh, and
plus Thursday, another round of jobless
claims as well as earnings from Broadcom
and Costco. Friday, we get Fed speak
again from presidents Anna Paulson, Beth
Hammock, and Austin Goulsby. Turning
back to a developing story, the
information reporting earlier today that
Chinese AI startup DeepSeek used
Nvidia's top-of-the-line Blackwell chips
to develop an upcoming AI model. Sources
saying that the chips were smuggled into
China via other countries permitting
their sale. Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo joins
us now from San Francisco. Ed, thank you
so much for being with us. This is
something a lot of people suspected that
DeepC couldn't have done this without
access to some of the highest tech
chips. How does this change the
landscape in terms of what people
understand about the efficiency and some
of the gains that we've seen in Chinese
AI technology?
>> Well, it it changes the landscape for
one because it's currently illegal and
prohibited for the Blackwell technology
to be exported to China. Again, this is
the information's reporting and
Bloomberg has not verified the
reporting. But what the information
report sets out is that Deep Seek
acquired the chips at a point of origin,
a country where they are permitted and
were already installed in data centers
where they were authorized. Those
servers were dismantled and the chips
were smuggled into China according to
the information's report. Um, even
passing inspections by server companies
um that are authorized to do business.
So there is some disconnect there. And
again in the information report,
Deepseek has not commented. Nvidia has
not commented. Bloomberg has not spoken
to either of the parties. There's a line
in the information report which I want
to to to flag very clearly. The
information are reporting that Deep Seek
would use thousands of the Blackwell
chips to train a major model that is not
yet released. Now, the reason that's
important is that when you speak to
anyone in industry, even with Blackwell,
the absolute cutting edge at this moment
in time, if you're going to train a
major model, you don't need thousands of
Blackwells, you need hundreds of
thousands of Blackwells. And bearing in
mind that Nvidia will ship millions of
units of them this year, but is still
supply constrained to an extent. The
question will be, well, hold on, how do
hundreds of thousands of Blackwells go
missing or unaccounted for? Um and is
the information right here that it's
thousands
>> and also and also which countries
potentially is we are seeing some of
this leaky tech and also can you give us
an update on what's going on with the
H200 seems that there are Chinese firms
who are interested and want to buy them.
Yeah. So as I understand it um according
to one source the president was giving a
given a range of options right export
zero no tech because of you know
national security risk
export all the tech the absolute latest
flood the Chinese market cut off Huawei
the oxygen to Huawei they decided to go
with H200 for a very interesting reason
as part of the analysis the white house
team looked at what Huawei can currently
do and they basically said, "Okay,
Huawei has a 910 C chip that chip for
chip is not as good as H200, not as good
as Blackwell, but what China and Huawei
have been able to do is take that
specific chip and in the form of a rack
or a cluster at scale, lots of chips in
aggregate, get performance out of its
cloud matrix 384 system that it is
comparable with Blackwell." So, that's
the narrative, right? They're exporting
H200 to the Chinese market. It's 18
months behind the technology that
American companies have access to.
Blackwell is what we're talking about.
But noting that the real concern is that
actually China's found a way to get
performance out of technology that is
generations behind at the chip forchip
level.
>> Ed Ledllo of Bloomberg, thank you so
much for being with us. We look forward
to uh hearing all of Ed's report
reporting. He did have this incredible
scoop about SpaceX potentially having an
IPO of $30 billion next year. one of the
biggest ever. Uh really interesting at
this moment.
>> Yeah. Mid to late 2026. So this is going
to be a massive story for Elon Musk and
those investors that are into SpaceX for
next year and Ed Lelo leading the
coverage there. Um that is going to be
something. Wow. Cuz people kept thinking
that timing would slip until 2027.
Doesn't look like it.
>> This is the backdrop that we're looking
at with a lot of enthusiasm around tech
of all sorts. Whether it's SpaceX,
whether it's Oracle coming out after the
opening, uh, after the closing bell
today, coming up on the Fed special,
which really is the marquee moment, 1:30
p.m. Eastern, Bob Michael of JP Morgan,
Subrau Rhappa of Sockje, Matt Lzetti of
Deutsche Bank, and Stephanie Roth of
Wolf Research. The expectation is that
we are going to get a 25 basis point
rate cut. That leads to 175 basis points
of cut since uh September of 2024. It
has been a real easing cycle that has
come on in a stealth mode with a lot of
people sort of suggesting that policy
was still tight and at the same time
when the Fed has not reached their
inflation target. The bias right now is
still to the labor market. The press
conference is going to be so interesting
because obviously on the other side of
Washington DC there might be interviews
taking place for who's going to be the
next Fed chair and how many dissents do
we get at this meeting and what is Jay
Powell going to say about it?
>> Yeah. And does it matter? Does can he
wrangle together a committee that is
incredibly divided, potentially the most
divided going back to the 1980s? Coming
up tomorrow, Dan Skellyy of Morgan
Stanley will be joining us. Libby
Cantrol of Pimco, Kristen Bitterly of
Croup. And don't miss this Oak Tree
co-founder and co-chairman Howard Marx
after a memo where he talked about the
possible concern around job losses tied
to AI, plus questions around a tech
bubble. This was Bloomberg Surveillance.
Good morning.